Speech by the Hon Malcolm Turnbull MP Minister for Communications Launching
“Dog Days - Australia after the Boom” by Ross Garnaut National Press Club
Canberra 15 November 2013  
  
#Check Against Delivery #  
  
  
  
Ross Garnaut is not a latter day Hanrahan telling us “we will all be rooned
before the year is out.” He also describes the way to avoid the doom of
spiralling deficits and dwindling incomes and employment that will be the
consequence of complacency.  
  
Carefully he describes the reform era which he dates from 1983 to 2001 and
with a touching nostalgia yearns for the return of that golden age when the
world, and Ross, were young.  
  
This was the a time when Ross and other reformers, from both sides of the
political fence, were framing and delivering the policies that brought to an
end the ‘Australian settlement’ of public policy by releasing from Government
control four big prices in our economy: The price of our currency, the price
of imports relative to local goods, the price of labour by deregulating our
industrial relations system and the price of capital on the financial markets.  
  
What followed was the ‘longest decade’ of economic growth that outlasted
serious economic downturns throughout the 1990s and 2000s, including the Asian
Financial Crisis, the dotcom bubble and the global financial crisis.  
  
Almost every page of this book reminds us of the wisdom of the The Economist’s
famous conclusion, published in the mid-1980s, that Australia is “one of the
best managers of adversity the world has seen and the worst managers of
prosperity”.  
  
This is one of the central paradoxes of our economic history.  
  
There is no doubt that economic reform should be harder when times are tough –
because in any reform where there are winners and losers the latter’s
complaints are louder than the former’s thanks (generally they are inaudible).
But in good times there are the resources to ease the transition, to soften
the blow. And yet it seems again and again we have been at our reforming best
when the TINA imperative - ”there is no alternative” - is at its strongest. We
are not alone – after all the reform era in New Zealand and the United Kingdom
was driven from adversity, although there is not much sign of that will power
among political leaders developing in the United States at the present time.  
  
Ross reminds us, that not for the first time, we have experienced a terms of
trade boom and saved very little of it. He is hard on the last years of the
Howard government and indeed the early years of the Hawke Government for not
running even bigger surpluses than they did – although as the Parliamentary
Budget Office’s work in this area suggests, there is little evidence that
Howard and Costello ran a structural deficit in any of those years except
perhaps the last, just prior to the November 2007 election.  
  
His case at its root is a straightforward one: when a terms of trade boom
occurs as it did when China’s growth accelerated so quickly about a decade
ago, it is far more prudent to err on the side of saving. The consequence of
saving too much is far less damaging than saving too little.  
  
The problem for policy makers of course is working out how much of the revenue
bonanza is going to last. Corporate tax receipts, Ross reminds us, rose from
$27 billion in 2002-3 to $65 billion in 2008-9, but are forecast according to
PEFO to be only $69 billion in 2013-14 – one eighth lower in real terms than
five years before. We shall see in MYEFO soon enough whether they are likely
to be even lower.  
  
The mistake Ross lays at the door of both the Howard Government (in its last
two terms) and the Rudd and Gillard Governments was that by making permanent
diminutions in Government revenues (tax cuts) and increases in expenditures
(increased entitlements) they spent, rather than saved, the proceeds of the
boom.  
  
However even with the 20-20 vision hindsight affords, there is no conceivable
equivalence between the two Governments. Howard promised surpluses and
delivered them. Rudd and Gillard promised surpluses and delivered the biggest
deficits in our history. Howard left the Government with cash in the bank.
Rudd and Gillard spent all that cash and left us with a mountain of debt.  
  
Of course managing prosperity as I noted earlier is always hard. It is much
easier to keep a tight control on expenses when creditors are breathing down
your neck.  
  
That is why I am pleased to see that Ross again encourages us to establish a
sovereign wealth fund and to learn that we both justify it in the same way.  
  
The case against a sovereign wealth fund – or running very large surpluses
which leads to the same end – is that the taxpayers are better able to manage
the excess tax they have paid (over the needs of Government) than the
Government is.  
  
An analogy is given of a corporation which, in a bumper year, pays an
especially big dividend but at the same time warns its shareholders that next
year’s may not be so large.  
  
There are reasons why corporations don’t like doing that which I won’t detain
you with, but for Governments that approach is rarely practical. Every payment
by Government, every cut in tax, even if it is clearly stated to be a one-off
will result in enormous pressure for it to be repeated. And the goodwill
engendered by the initial grant will be miniscule compared to the rage and
resentment when it is not repeated.  
  
However when there are large surpluses the pressure on Government to “give
them back” is enormous and as Peter Costello reminds us when he was the
Treasurer there was nobody calling for him to run even bigger surpluses.  
  
So the reason I have always favoured a new sovereign wealth fund is because it
would mean that when a Cabinet, presented with a surplus, was considering
(possibly unsustainable tax cuts on the one hand and increases in entitlements
on the other) there would also be a third option of saving the money.  
  
In other words the case for a sovereign wealth fund is as much grounded in
behavioural as it is in macro economics.  
  
Now I hasten to note that given the current state of the budget our focus is
on cutting the deficit and reducing debt. We would love to be weighing up how
to dispose of a surplus. That would be a high class problem! But nonetheless,
as Ross notes, we should be having the debate about saving now in anticipation
of better days ahead. In other words we should not be so focussed on managing
declining terms of trade and lower receipts that we do not also plan how we
would manage shocks on the upside as well.  
  
The Grattan Institute recently calculated that though the uplift in the terms
of trade from 2002-03 levels provided around $190 billion in additional
receipts for the Federal Government, structural expenditure decisions made by
Governments over that period – that is, not even counting short-term stimulus
policies – added up to an estimated $180 billion .  
  
While we can quibble about the precise numbers it has become increasingly
clear that the last Government not only spent the vast majority of our
receipts from the boom – but also entrenched levels of spending that were
barely sustainable in periods of record terms of trade.  
  
Ross looks back to the golden error and reminds us that it was Labor that
first significantly reduced the size of the federal Government from 27.3 per
cent of GDP in 1984-85 to 25.5 per cent of GDP in 1995-96. The Coalition
further reduced the size of the Federal Government to 23.1 per cent by
1999-2000.  
  
As George Megalogenis reminds us, the “insistence on surplus budgeting is an
enduring electoral trait that has served Australia well over the past
generation … The true value of our thrift would be apparent during the global
financial crisis, when Australia avoided not just recession but the large
public debts that came with it” .  
  
But the wider point is that we are leaving an era in our political economy, as
Ross says, when poor policy looks good enough and ordinary policy looks
celestial.  
  
The era when policy makers were greeted with unexpected receipts to prop up
populist promises are over. Since their peak in 2011, the terms of trade have
fallen by 14 per cent, leading to a fall in Government revenue. As Joe Hockey
recently observed, in the 18 months since the May 2012 budget there was a $95
billion deterioration in the budget position from the forward estimates .  
  
We are entering an era when we will be forced, more than ever, to explain to
the public the difficult trade-offs that are being made, the true costs of
populist policies and the need for individual sacrifices to achieve wider
economic benefit.  
  
The fall in the terms of trade meant that per-capita incomes fell by three
quarters of a per-cent in 2012-13. As Joe Hockey said last week , “with the
ebbing of the terms of trade, growth in productivity will more than ever
determine future growth in Australian living standards. If we don’t start
moving now we could face very different outcomes in the next decade.” Or to
quote Ross, we are entering an era “when celestial economic policy looks
ordinary, and ordinary policy diabolical. It will be wise to save much of the
economic fruits of the China boom, in case the extraordinary conditions that
we are enjoying turn out to be temporary—as they always have in the past.”
(p.2)  
  
Now that’s the fork-in-the-road situation we find ourselves in. One of the key
features of this book is not just in identifying what road Ross argues we
should take – but why in his view Australia, as a nation and a political
culture, is becoming more and more likely to take the low road on reform.  
  
Ross is very critical of the disappearance or the shrinking, as he sees it, of
the ‘substantial independent centre of national polity’ (p.11). And by that,
he doesn’t mean that we need more ‘centrists’ or people who are willing to
stand equidistant from two extreme positions or impose a false equivalence on
the two sides of politics. He reminds us, for instance, that both unions and
big business were equally vociferous in their opposition to the winding back
of protectionism (p.28).  
  
What he means is that we need a strong group of independent, thoughtful,
intelligent contributors to our public policy. They are not affected by
personal or corporate interests, are not aligned with parties, are usually
private though there are many public institutions with traditions and rules
that support independence. Organisations such as universities, think tanks,
the Productivity Commission and to the extent permitted by the Government of
the day the Treasury, and at times the news media – though that is not always
the case – fit into that category.  
  
Government commissioned reports can be immensely influential – Campbell,
Martin, Hilmer – it is hard to imagine the reform era without them.  
  
But politicians have to be prepared to argue the case for the reform and
foster, rather than shut down debate.  
  
Ross is rightly highly critical of Wayne Swan’s mismanagement of the Henry
Report on Taxation presented to the Government at the end of 2009. Swan sat on
the report right through to the eve of the budget in 2010 and then released it
with a commitment to implement only a few of its recommendations most notably
what became the Resource Super Profits Tax (RSPT). This extraordinarily
impractical proposal and the opposition it provoked in no small measure
brought down a Prime Minister.  
  
But had the Henry Report been published when it was received and had its
contents been debate the problems with the RSPT would have been exposed. All
it needed was a Treasurer with the confidence to laugh off demands from
journalists and the opposition to “rule in” or “rule out” a particular
recommendation and instead to say “I encourage everyone to read the report and
debate it. The Government will reach its conclusions after considering the
report and the debate that follows.”  
  
Most of all, politicians themselves have to be prepared to explain the context
for policy choices and then advocate their preferred approach in a manner
which informs, rather than misleads, the electorate.  
  
As it happens one of the worst examples of bad policy formation and then
misleading exposition was the Labor Government’s NBN policy.  
  
It is important to reflect on the scale and singularity of the recklessness
involved here.  
  
Around the world, almost every country is seeing an upgrade of broadband
services. This is the Internet Age – it won’t be long before the vast majority
of all people, not just those in the developed world, have access to the
Internet and most of them via a smartphone.  
  
The almost universal approach is for the private sector to upgrade their
broadband services in response to the demands of their customers. This is the
market at work. But there are invariably some areas which are uneconomic. And
so the typical model is that Governments provide a subsidy of some kind to
ensure that everyone gets connected – often a mixture of the traditional USO
(funded by all consumers via their telcos) and direct grants.  
  
The virtue of this approach is that the Government knows what it is up for. It
works out what it can afford and writes the cheque. The execution and project
risk is all on the private sector which is, after all, better able to manage
it.  
  
But not in Australia.  
  
Here the two largest telcos in Australia, Telstra and Optus, are the ones
receiving the cheque. The two companies with the most experience of building
and operating fixed line networks (Telstra’s experience obviously dwarfing
that of Optus) have no execution risk. They are getting the cheque.  
  
The Government on the other hand, created a start up business to build and
operate not just two satellites and a wireless network but the largest scale
deployment of fibre to the premises in any comparable country.  
  
They did so without any cost benefit analysis and on the basis of financial
assumptions which assumed flawless execution, utterly unprecedented revenue
growth, equally unrealistic construction costs and a final sale price at a
multiple of earnings which was not so much aspirational as delusional.  
  
We are endeavouring to set this right.  
  
There is underway right now a rigorous strategic analysis of the NBN Co which
will tell us where the project really is now, what it would cost and how long
it would really take to complete it on the Labor Government’s specifications
and what our options are to complete it sooner and more cost effectively using
a range of other technologies.  
  
As the NBN Co’s repeated failure to meet its forecasts demonstrates there has
not been a culture of rigorous, prudent, fact based reporting. My Labor
predecessors were told what they wanted to hear and it is worth noting that
when, on the eve of the election, the Company finally gave Mr Albanese a set
of (yet again) downgraded forecasts he kept them to himself.  
  
By way of contrast we are publishing every week the rollout figures of the
project. There will be quarterly financial reports that I will present to
Parliament and the company’s management will regularly take questions on those
reports not just from parliamentary committees but from analysts and the
press.  
  
We will be establishing very shortly an independent panel to conduct a cost
benefit analysis and regulatory review of the NBN.  
  
There will also be an audit of both the policy formation leading to the NBN
and the governance and management of the company to date.  
  
My goal on broadband is not to deploy one technology or another. If time and
money were no object we may very well run fibre into every nook and cranny of
the nation. But in this vale of tears time, money, cost, availability and
affordability do matter.  
  
And so first we have to tell the truth about the project and about the
relevant technologies, in other words treat the Australian people as the
shareholders of the NBN Co they truly are and give them the facts Labor denied
them, so that we can make informed decisions about our technology choices.  
  
The longer I serve in Parliament the more convinced I am that we should strive
to be the best explainers we can. We cannot just leave it to professors and
experts and think tanks – no matter how important they may be. Those who have
the biggest megaphones have the biggest responsibility and nobody has a bigger
megaphone than a member of parliament.  
  
Overall, the Government is very alert to the challenges. Ross sets them out in
this book. We recognise that improving productivity is the key to ensuring our
future prosperity. We recognise that the only way we can remain a prosperous,
high wage economy with a generous social welfare net is by being smarter,
faster, more competitive in every way.  
  
Convergence supercharged by the Internet is making more jobs, more businesses
trade exposed than ever before. There only alternative to higher productivity
is economic and national decline.  
  
Ross places a lot of store in a real depreciation of the Australian dollar and
the reduction in real incomes that would bring. I would simply note, as Ross
does, that the value of our currency is in large measure dictated by the
determined efforts of others, notably the United States, to devalue their
currencies. Despite continuing interest rate reductions the AUD has remained
very high and while Government can, by spending less and saving more, take
pressure off the dollar, it cannot determine its value.  
  
During the campaign I was struck by how often trade exposed businesses,
including manufacturers, told me that their competitiveness was undermined not
just by higher wages and a higher dollar but by higher “other costs” including
compliance and regulation.  
  
That is why we are committed to cutting $1 billion off the cost to business of
regulation and red tape.  
  
In my own department we are conducting now a root and branch review of all
levels of regulation to ask these questions:-  
  
\- What is the policy objective of the regulation in question? \- Is it still
valid? If not the regulation should go. \- If it is still valid, can it be
achieved more cost effectively.  
  
A smarter use of technology will be a key part of this exercise. Governments
are embracing digital platforms – MyGov is a good example as indeed is
Australia Post’s digital mailbox. But they are generally well behind the
corporate sector. One of the weaknesses of our predecessors’ approach was that
they were so concerned to promote and defend their near universal fibre to the
premises NBN that they presented a fibre connection as pre-requisite for
access to the digital economy and all its benefits.  
  
So unhinged was this political obsession that many of the broadband trials
sponsored by the Labor Government, including medical ones, required that the
NBN’s network had to be used. In many places the unavailability of the NBN
made the trial unfeasible. So I have wherever possible amended the terms to
enable any form of broadband to be used in the trial so that our exploration
of the opportunities of broadband are not shackled to the progress of a fibre
network.  
  
Thank you Ross for yet another challenging contribution to the policy debate –
over many years - you have made a formidable, indeed indelible, contribution
to our public policy discourse and development. I am delighted to launch the
book and look forward to it provoking the type of informed discussion we all
enjoy.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (11:12): I move:  
  
That this bill be now read a second time.  
  
The Telecommunications Legislation Amendment (Consumer Protection) Bill 2013
introduces important amendments to reduce the administrative burden of
telecommunications legislation on industry; enhance consumer protections; and
ensure the Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman scheme is periodically
reviewed and updated to meet best practice standards.  
  
In a rapidly changing communications environment it is essential that the
codes under which the industry operates can be readily updated in response to
new technology and changing service standards and that Australian consumers
can have problems with their telecommunications services quickly resolved.  
  
I note that these legislative measures were introduced in a very similar form
by the former government prior to the September election and that the earlier
version of this bill received bipartisan and industry support at the time.
This bill contains several key measures.  
  
The bill enhances the operational efficiency of the Do Not Call Register Act
2006 by clarifying the meaning of 'cause' in that act in relation to the party
responsible for making a telemarketing call or sending a marketing fax.  
  
Approximately nine million telephone numbers are listed on the Do Not Call
Register, including two-thirds of Australian households with a fixed line home
telephone and close to four million mobile telephone numbers.  
  
Amendments included in this bill will provide the Australian Communications
and Media Authority with the ability to undertake more effective enforcement
action in relation to unsolicited telemarketing calls and marketing faxes.  
  
The amendments being made will also clarify responsibility for unsolicited
marketing calls and faxes so that a party contracting with an intermediary
that makes telemarketing calls or sends telemarketing faxes cannot evade
responsibility for compliance with the Do Not Call Register by using
intermediaries of that kind on their behalf.  
  
The proposed amendments to the Telecommunications Act 1997 included in this
bill will simplify the process of updating the body of industry codes that
form the basis of the telecommunications industry's self and co-regulatory
framework.  
  
These codes cover, among other things, consumer protections, technical
matters, operational and inter-operator arrangements. They are registered—and
when necessary enforced—by the ACMA.  
  
Under existing legislation, making changes to a registered code has required
that the entire document be opened up for formal revision—a process that at
times has entailed more than a year of work by multiple stakeholders. These
amendments will allow code developers to maintain robust and dynamic industry
codes by enabling them to be varied or amended, rather than being replaced in
their entirety, subject to the approval of the ACMA. Additionally, the
amendments:  
  
extend the reimbursement scheme for developing consumer related industry codes
to also apply to variations of those codes; and improve the transparency of
code development by requiring draft codes and most submissions to be published
on the code developer's website. The telecommunications industry has welcomed
the proposed amendments to the Telecommunications Act which will also
facilitate a planned program to reduce the co-regulatory burden on the sector
by streamlining and consolidating requirements where these are duplicated
within multiple codes.  
  
Such measures will complement this government's broader efforts to reduce the
red-tape burden on all sectors of the Australian economy which we intend to
lead to savings of $1 billion per year.  
  
Lastly, the bill also introduces amendments to provide greater regulatory
clarity around the role of the Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman (TIO) and
its expected standards of operation. These amendments were developed in
response to recommendations from a 2012 review of the TIO scheme.  
  
The bill achieves this objective by requiring the TIO scheme to comply with
standards determined by legislative instrument made by the minister.  
  
The bill also requires the TIO scheme to be independently reviewed and provide
for consultation with the public and the ACMA. The TIO will be required to
publish a final review report on its website and respond to any review
recommendations within a specific time frame. These amendments will ensure the
TIO scheme continues to operate as a best practice alternative dispute
resolution service—a great example of the industry solving consumer problems
rather than relying on government regulation. The various amendments in this
bill are not contentious and have the support of industry, regulatory
authorities and consumer representatives.  
  
There is no doubt the communications landscape is entering a critical phase
where changes in technology are making traditional regulatory frameworks
either inefficient or redundant. This bill removes certain regulatory
rigidities while preserving transparency and accountability for
telecommunications consumers.  
  
I commend the bill to the House.  
  
Debate adjourned.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (11:18): I move:  
  
That this bill be now read a second time.  
  
Submarine cables are a vital part of Australia's telecommunications
infrastructure. They carry almost all of the international internet traffic in
and out of Australia. They are a vital link for Australia to the global
telecommunications network and the global digital economy.  
  
Submarine cables have been in use for telephonic and telegraphic purposes for
over 150 years, beginning with submarine telegraph cables laid across the
English Channel in 1851 and then, after several failed attempts, across the
Atlantic Ocean in 1866. The first connection between Australia and the rest of
the world by submarine cable was the Java to Port Darwin telegraph link in
1872. This in turn was connected to the southern capitals by the iconic
Overland Telegraph Line built by Charles Todd.  
  
These first submarine cables carried telegraph messages only. The signal
attenuation over the long cable runs would not permit voice traffic, let alone
the transmission of images. The early cables did not have the technical
ability to amplify their signals, so it was not until the introduction and
development of coaxial cable and in-cable amplifiers and repeaters in 1956
that voice traffic over submarine cables was possible. Until then, from the
1920s, international voice traffic was carried over radio.  
  
I should note, by way of reflection, that the cost of transmission on the
first transatlantic submarine cable in 1866—when a dollar was really worth a
dollar—was $5 a word. It is interesting to reflect on the vast amounts of data
that are transmitted from one end of the worth to the other at no cost or very
negligible cost to the consumer, particularly relative to the past.  
  
In the 20th century, submarine cable technology evolved—first, as I said, with
the repeaters and coaxial cable technology in the fifties and then, most
significantly and momentously, in the late eighties when fibre optic cables
became available and enabled the transmission of vast quantities of
information. Modern submarine cables typically provide multiple terabits per
second of capacity when deployed and can be further upgraded, positioning them
to meet future traffic demands.  
  
As an island nation, Australia and its economy is especially dependent on
submarine cables. As such, damage to submarine cables can have a significant
impact. There are currently seven international submarine cables connecting to
Australia that are in operation. The main players are Southern Cross Cable Ltd
which operates the Southern Cross Cable, PIPE International which operates
PPC-1, Telstra which operates APNG-2 and Telstra Endeavour, and Singtel and
Reach which operate the SEA-ME-WE 3 cable.  
  
It is worth noting that prior to the late 1990s, globally, cables were
constructed by consortia of carriers. They typically were called club cables.
It was first in the late 1990s that private cables started to be built by
companies like Level 3, Global Crossing, Tyco and others—PSInet, for example.
Indeed, there was a boom in the cable construction business in the late 1990s,
and it is worth reflecting that it was said at the time that many of these
cable proposals had business plans estimating that they would get 60 per cent
of the market share. Given that so many were being constructed at the same
time, that was obviously not achievable. Many of them went into bankruptcy,
but the assets remained. Creditors lost most of their money, but the assets
remained, and, over time, demand has caught up with the extraordinary increase
in capacity. I remember this period very well, because I was a director of the
Telstra/PCCW cable company called Reach, which was operating the merged
international cable assets of Telstra and Hong Kong Telecom.  
  
In Australia, all of the cables were consortia cables, or club cables, until
2008. Beginning then, a number of private cables, including PIPE
International's, for example—at that time it was headed by Bevan
Slattery—started to be built, and there are more in the pipeline, if you will
forgive the pun, in the future.  
  
There are very considerable risks associated with submarine cables. When you
consider that it is estimated that 99 per cent of the world's international
internet traffic is carried on these cables, the House can see the dependence
we have on them. Their breakage, their interruption, can have enormous
consequences. This is why the physical placement of these cables is of
considerable importance. There is a single-point-of-failure issue if too many
cables are located in the same pathway and go to the same access points. The
most notorious example of this was in December 2008 when the cable station off
Alexandria in Egypt saw an anchor cut three of the four cables connecting
Europe to the Middle East. Those three cables carried over 90 per cent of all
of the internet traffic between Europe and the Middle East, and, for example,
India lost up to 80 per cent of its connectivity, the Maldives lost 100 per
cent, and the impact on all of the countries of the Middle East and further
east was very considerable. So, protecting the security of submarine cables is
a very serious issue.  
  
Most cable breakages are accidental. This is also true, by the way, of fixed-
line terrestrial networks. The engineers talk about the dangers of shovel
strike—over-zealous gardeners and backhoes cutting through cables. But with
these very important subsea cables there is also the risk of deliberate
attack. Cables were cut by the combatants in the Second World War—the British
cut the German cables and the Royal Australian Navy cut Japanese telegram
cables off Indochina during the Second World War. There is a vulnerability,
not just in times of war, but to terrorist attack. It is a point of
vulnerability that the House should be very conscious of.  
  
Fortunately, the previous coalition government was very well aware of this
and, in 2005, it established a regime for the protection of international
submarine cables landing in Australia, in the form of schedule 3A of the
Telecommunications Act 1997.  
  
The regime gives the industry regulator, the Australian Communications and
Media Authority, or the ACMA, the power to establish protection zones around
international submarine cables of national significance. In protection zones,
certain activities are prohibited or restricted from taking place including
some kinds of fishing, trawling and mining.  
  
The regime also establishes an installation permit system. Carriers seeking to
install an international submarine cable that will land in Australia must
apply for a permit to install the cable.  
  
To date, the ACMA has declared three protection zones—the north and south
Sydney protection zones and the Perth Protection Zone. Since the introduction
of the regime, there have been no reported incidents of cable damage in
Australian waters.  
  
Australia's regime has been praised by both the International Cable Protection
Committee and the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation as a global best practice
regulatory example for the protection of submarine cables.  
  
In 2010, the ACMA undertook a statutory review of schedule 3A. Based on
feedback received from industry, the ACMA made several recommendations to
improve the operation of the regime.  
  
These recommendations form the basis of the amendments proposed in the bill,
along with other proposals that have been identified by the government and
stakeholders that will further enhance the regime. The amendments fall into
five categories.  
  
First, the bill will ensure consistency between our cable protection regime
and the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, also known as UNCLOS.
UNCLOS sets out coastal nations' rights and obligations in relation to the
seas and oceans, including Australia's right to regulate foreign ships and
persons beyond its territorial sea.  
  
While it has not been a practical issue to date because the ACMA is required
to consider UNCLOS when it exercises its powers, some concerns have been
expressed that the regime may seek to regulate foreign nationals for certain
actions in waters of the exclusive economic zone or continental shelf in a
manner inconsistent with international law, including UNCLOS. To the extent
that the regime is used as a model by other jurisdictions, this carries the
risk that other jurisdictions may replicate this model. The bill addresses
this by modifying the regime's application, including criminal and civil
enforcement options, to foreign ships and nationals in the waters beyond
Australia's territorial sea. Second, the bill will provide a structured
process for the consideration of matters within the Attorney-General's
portfolio in relation to submarine cable installation permit applications by:
requiring the ACMA to consult with the Secretary of the Attorney-General's
Department on installation permit applications; and giving the Attorney-
General power, after consultation with the Minister for Communications and the
Prime Minister, to direct the ACMA to refuse a permit on security grounds.  
  
During the consultation period, the Secretary of the Attorney-General's
Department may make a submission on the permit application, which may include
a recommendation about the conditions that should be specified in the permit.
These are mechanisms to enable matters including security, international law
and native title that may affect submarine cable installations to be
considered.  
  
The changes formalise existing practice. The proposed provisions are based on
the current carrier licence application provisions under the
Telecommunications Act and are familiar to industry.  
  
Third, the bill will enable significant domestic submarine cables—that is,
cables that connect two places in Australia—to be brought under the regime and
be suitably protected under the regime if appropriate. The bill will give the
Governor-General power to specify in regulations that a domestic cable or
route warrants protection. The ACMA would then have discretion to decide
whether a protection zone should be declared around that cable or route.
Consultation would be required before any regulations were made and any new
protection zones specified. Carriers will also be able to install domestic
submarine cables in protection zones by applying for a permit to do so. This
is something not currently possible under the regime as currently in force.  
  
Fourth, the bill will streamline the installation permit process so that:
carriers only need to apply for and obtain one type of permit to land a cable
in Australia (whereas now they could require two applications, one for a
permit zone and one for outside it); the default timeframe for processing a
non-protection zone permit application will be reduced from 180 days to 60
business days; and processes under the regime that duplicate existing
processes under the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act
1999 are removed. These amendments will reduce red and green tape—a key focus
of our new government and something I will have a lot more to say about in the
coming months with regards to the telecommunications sector. Fifth, the bill
will make several administrative and technical amendments to enhance the
overall operation of the bill. This includes: expanding the list of
authorities the ACMA must notify when it declares, varies or revokes a
protection zone to include relevant authorities involved in sea monitoring,
offshore law enforcement and management activities; for example the Australian
Customs and Border Protection Service; permitting minor deviations to the
routes of submarine cables; requiring permit applicants to notify the ACMA of
any changes to their application; permitting the ACMA to publish a summary of
a proposal to declare, vary or revoke a protection zone in the newspapers and
the electronic Commonwealth Gazette, while ensuring the full proposal to be
published on its website; requiring the ACMA to provide reasons if it declares
a protection zone that is different to the original request; and clarifying
that prohibited or restricted activities in a protection zone do not include
activities associated with maintenance or repair of a submarine cable. To
support the legislative framework, the government continues to work with
stakeholders both domestically and internationally to increase the resilience
of submarine cables to disruption. Australia is the first government member of
the International Cable Protection Committee, a peak international body that
brings together submarine cable owners and operators and national governments
to discuss issues associated with submarine cables. Australia is one of only a
handful of nations that has a dedicated regime for the protection of submarine
cables. The bill will ensure that Australia's regime continues to be a best
practice regime and the protection the regime affords to this vital
infrastructure is maintained. Submarine cables ensure our connectedness to the
rest of the world. They are vital components of our telecommunications
infrastructure. The private sector has responded well to growth in the demand
for international submarine cable capacity, and is well aware of the potential
for future traffic growth. Further investments in cables, especially on the
Perth to Singapore route, have been announced by the Nextgen Group,
SubPartners and Trident. The SubPartners proposal, I notice, involves a plan
to also have a connection through to Jakarta. Several cables off the east
coast of Australia have also been announced. SubPartners and Hawaiki Pty Ltd
have announced proposals to construct cables connecting Australia and the
United States. Telstra, Vodafone NZ and Telecom NZ have recently announced a
joint venture to build an additional cable between Australia and New Zealand.
But connectedness is not just about ensuring our submarine cables or satellite
links or even backhaul fibre are of a high standard—it is just as much about
ensuring that Australian mums and dads, school kids or small business people
can take advantage of the resources and opportunities of the internet. That is
why the government is delivering a better NBN. Our NBN will deliver fast
internet sooner to Australians at less cost to taxpayers and at a more
affordable price for consumers. Unlike Labor, we have committed to
prioritising the NBN rollout in areas with the poorest services so that those
who currently cannot connect, or have the poorest speeds, get fast broadband
sooner. Under Labor many areas with poor broadband services would have been
waiting for 10 or more years—and we will learn more about that when the
strategic review is completed—before being connected while many with access to
fast broadband received further upgrades ahead of those in need. I note that
only last week I inspected an area in Blacktown where the NBN fibre rollout is
proceeding. In those streets where the fibre was being deployed there was
available not only Telstra HFC cable but Optus HFC cable. So the residents of
those streets are able to acquire, without the NBN, a 100-megabit service from
Telstra or indeed from Optus; but no doubt for reasons of electoral rather
than telecommunications priorities the NBN was being rolled out in that
street. By rolling out a more affordable NBN with greater potential for
competition we will also ensure that more families will be able to afford a
home internet connection. We have to recognise that the biggest barrier to
accessing the internet in Australia is not actually poor technical facilities.
That is a factor for many households, I grant you, but the biggest single
barrier is affordability. So ensuring that a broadband network is built
speedily and cost effectively will ensure that it is affordable. An
overexpensed, overcapitalised National Broadband Network will only result in
more Australians on low incomes being locked out of access to the digital
economy. That is something we will not countenance. The coalition's approach
to broadband and to the internet is absolutely embracing the whole excitement
of global connectedness, whether it is in Australian households, schools and
businesses or under the oceans. I am delighted that this bill will strengthen
the laws related to the submarine cables that connect us to the world, just as
I am excited about our plan for a better NBN which will mean that more
Australians will be able to connect to and take part in the digital economy
than ever before. I commend the bill to the House. Debate adjourned.'NBN Rebooted'  
  
CommsDay Conference Sydney, 18 November 2013  
  
I’m pleased to be here this morning to help kick off the NBN Rebooted
Conference, and I congratulate Michael Lee and John Stanton at the
Communications Alliance and Grahame Lynch at Commsday for making this event
happen. Likewise, I thank Alcatel Lucent, the major sponsor, and the rest of
the sponsors for their support.  
  
It’s tremendously encouraging that people from every corner of the
telecommunications industry have chosen to attend this event in such numbers.  
  
From the outset, the National Broadband Network has been a colossal
undertaking, well beyond the capabilities of any single firm or any government
to execute on their own.  
  
I’ve previously expressed the view that the Government should not be nearly as
involved in this project as we are.  
  
Elsewhere in the world the standard model of building new generation networks
has been for governments to provide subsidies to support deployment in less
economic, typically rural and remote, areas and for the project and business
execution risk to be carried by those best able to manage it – the private
sector.  
  
However the previous Labor Government turned all that on its head. Instead of
Government having a certain financial commitment, it was the private telcos
who received financial certainty in the form of a cheque. And all of the
execution risk of the largest, most complex, broadband deployment in the world
was assumed by the Australian Government in the form of a start up. The folly
remains breathtaking to this day and more obvious every day.  
  
We would never, ever have undertaken this project in this manner. And you only
have to look to New Zealand or indeed the UK to see much wiser and more cost
effective approaches.  
  
However we are where we are.  
  
But make no mistake; to get this project back on track and completed in a
reasonable timeframe at a reasonable cost is a daunting challenge.  
  
And it is abundantly clear to me that to achieve that goal, we are going to
need commitment and flexibility, patience and hard work from the entire
industry – not just from Telstra and Optus, not just from iiNet and Vodafone,
but from across the whole sector: service providers, carriers, vendors,
contractors, policymakers and regulators.  
  
Over the next two days you’ll have the opportunity to hear voices representing
many of these points of view.  
  
So will my colleagues and I – and let me assure you that we’ll be listening
carefully.  
  
The profoundly disappointing progress on the NBN so far holds many lessons.
But one of the most important is that Government simply doesn’t possess all
the answers, especially when it comes to executing a complex plan in a fast-
changing industry such as ours.  
  
On the contrary, the woeful performance of the NBN rollout against its
financial and operational targets so far indicates that there is a vast amount
that the Government and NBN Co have to learn. It’s my hope that this event can
make a constructive contribution to that exercise. I’ll speak in greater
detail about the current state of play at NBN Co shortly, to the extent that
I’m able to do so without pre-judging or pre-empting the findings of the
Strategic Review presently underway and due to be presented by the board of
NBN Co to the Government in early December.  
  
But first let me make a few points about the broadband policy the Coalition
took to the election on 7 September, and some of its implications for the way
the Government is going to approach the NBN.  
  
Optionality  
  
You’ve heard me say many times that our main objections to the previous
Government’s NBN were its excessive cost, the significant length of time it
would take to complete, and its shifting of a very large amount of risk from
private investors to taxpayers and the public purse. Those all remain valid
concerns.  
  
But today I want to elaborate on another of our core issues with the current
plan – the more subtle but hardly less important objection that it
unnecessarily forecloses on optionality, by setting in concrete choices that
can valuably be deferred.  
  
History tells us that policy-makers and politicians are not very good at
predicting what’s going to happen next and there is not shortage of evidence
for that in the telecommunications and technology industries.  
  
In hindsight, of course, ministers and senior public servants claim to have
seen the signs of an unexpected development even as they scramble to put
together a retrospective rationale. But the truth is that governments are all
too often blindsided, particularly when a shift is distinct from previous
experience.  
  
Nicholas Taleb describes the framework that we should ideally bring to
forecasting:  
  
“Probability is not a mere computation of odds on the dice or more complicated
variants; it is the acceptance of the lack of certainty in our knowledge and
the development of methods for dealing with our ignorance.”  
  
But that is easier said than done. And in the case of the ICT industries
generally, and the NBN specifically, the dangers are magnified. We can see
this in the rapidly changing external context for the NBN that have occurred
since April 2009, when the NBN Mark 1 was ditched and the current one-
technology-fits-93% FTTP plan proposed.  
  
At the time NBN Mark 2 was unveiled, Cisco’s first VNI index, which had been
released in the middle of 2008 predicted consumer use of Internet traffic (in
terms of volume) would grow at an annual rate of 49 per cent over the half-
decade from 2007 to 2012 [1].  
  
As it happens, that prediction turned out to be extraordinarily accurate –
consumer Internet volumes grew at a rate very close to Cisco’s estimate over
those five years.  
  
Today, in contrast, we see that the most recent VNI, which was released in
June 2013, forecasts a growth rate for total consumer use of data over the
five years from 2012 to 2017 of just 23 per cent. Rather than data volumes
doubling every two years, now they are doubling every four years.  
  
That is still very rapid growth, but not nearly as intimidating to carriers as
it was.  
  
And even more importantly, large growths in the volume of data being carried
across the Internet and indeed being consumed by households are driven
overwhelmingly by video consumption and it is self evident that data
consumption can continue to grow without a correlated growth in line speeds.  
  
Granular analyses of current and projected broadband consumption falls short
of the very high predicted line speed requirements which all too often assume
there is a linear correlation between volume growth and the demand for greater
line speed [2].  
  
Plainly, if costly and irreversible investment decisions can be deferred until
demand either materializes or can reasonably be foreseen, savings arising from
the time value of money are not the only economic value generated. There is
also very real value in keeping the option open of doing something different
than what might seem at a certain point in time to be the obvious answer – of
responding to changing technology and changing market conditions.  
  
Changing Market Conditions  
  
Likewise, in the past five years we have seen an explosion in new techniques
for wringing higher data rate broadband out of copper telephone wires. In fact
between the widespread deployment of fibre to the cabinet plus VDSL2, the
emergence of vectoring and bonding, the initial commercial trialing of fibre
to the distribution point, and emerging protocols such as g.fast, it is fair
to describe the past five years as having encompassed a revolution in the way
copper is used.  
  
Equally important changes are continuing to come at us at a rapid pace.  
  
Wireless networks are increasingly being rolled out using small cell
technologies that dramatically lower the cost of extending the reach and
throughput of this channel – but also creating the need for deep fibre
backhaul networks in urban areas.  
  
Radiofrequency spectrum is used more efficiently, greatly increasing the data
that can be sent over wireless networks. And mobility has proven to be a key
source of productivity and convenience gains from more advanced
communications, even as larger-screen higher-definition TVs (the key driver of
consumer use of bandwidth) give way for many of us to personal TV viewing on
tablets.  
  
A more nimble approach to designing (and imagining) the NBN can preserve a
great deal of this optionality.  
  
So next time you read or hear someone claim that FTTN is a ‘waste’ because the
network will just have to be upgraded to FTTP some time later pause for a
moment and consider optionality. Consider its value, and consider the vast
changes we’ve seen in so many areas since 2009.  
  
And consider what a difference they have made to the economic and
technological parameters within which the NBN will be rolled out.  
  
The previous Government didn’t get this point. It was naively willing to
forego any optionality whatsoever in its reckless pursuit of what was seen to
be a ‘pure’ technological solution that cut through three knotty problems at a
stroke – very fast broadband, improvements to regional services, and the
unwinding of Telstra’s vertical integration.  
  
The resulting plan for the NBN was portrayed to taxpayers and consumers as
commercially viable and free of risk. Heroic revenue assumptions with
unprecedented growths in ARPU marched out into the future all the way to an
equally heroic assumed sale in 2040 based on an eye-popping EBIT margin and
multiple to produce a huge terminal value. And as if this was not enough, it
was then discounted back to today’s money at a discount rate appropriate to a
mature, low risk venture [3].  
  
I see The Australian has reported one investment bank told the previous
Government that in its view the project had a negative NPV of $31 billion –
based it would seem on a more conservative view of both the amount and
riskiness of the future cashflows. Senator Penny Wong has complained that this
advice is a “selective” account of the total received by Labor in Government.
Well there is a simple solution to that. Mr Shorten, as Opposition Leader, can
authorize the release of cabinet papers of the previous Government, otherwise
inaccessible to the Coalition.  
  
He should do so.  
  
Where is the NBN up to?  
  
One result of the glacial rollout of the existing monolithic approach to the
NBN is that Australia has continued to fall in rank on most indices of
broadband quality – we are a troubling 29th in fixed broadband penetration,
according to the 2013 United Nations ‘State of Broadband Report’ [4]. Last
year we ranked 26th [5].  
  
Just as the NBN volume rollout was planned to be ramping up, we are sliding
down the league tables of international competitiveness in terms of broadband.  
  
The NBN rollout is simply not reaching enough Australian households and
businesses in a timeframe or at a cost that is sustainable. If you want to see
that, check the weekly data we now publish on the NBN Co website.  
  
Australians consumers are paying a high price for the rigidity of the previous
plan, which Minister Conroy was unwilling to admit until after the voters had
had their say.  
  
As the Strategic Review delves further into the current state of the rollout,
we are slowly getting a better handle on what NBN Co really was capable of
achieving under the outgoing management, and how we need to bolster its
capabilities.  
  
Shortly before the election, the NBN Co revised its June 30 2014 premises
passed target down to 600,000 brownfield premises, about half what had been
estimated in August the previous year.  
  
However it appears that even that estimate was unduly optimistic and it is
likely that when new, realistic and genuinely achievable targets are set they
will be materially lower – around 450,000. Compare that to Labor’s December
2010 target of 2.2 million brownfield premises passed with fibre by June 2014,
and we see NBN Co is on a path to achieve only 21 per cent of the original
forecast.  
  
NBN Reform  
  
We can’t change the past, but we’ve moved quickly since the election to make
changes at NBN Co that equip it to transition to a more predictable,
affordable and achievable rollout.  
  
Critically, we’ve advised NBN Co that the network should be rolled out cost-
effectively using the technology best matched to the circumstances of each
locality. This is fundamentally different to the Conroy model of decreeing
GPON for 93 per cent of the country.  
  
To this end, on September 24 the Government provided NBN Co with an interim
Statement of Expectations to guide construction and operational activities
while a series of reviews of the NBN project are carried out.  
  
In the transition period, NBN Co aims to avoid service disruption for
consumers; minimise the impact on the construction industry of the switch to a
mixed technology rollout by continuing FTTP deployment where building
contracts are in place and also in areas where fibre is the appropriate
technology such as business precincts and greenfield developments; and achieve
a less costly and quicker rollout plan as seamlessly as possible.  
  
On October 3 we announced the terms of reference of the strategic review and
changes to the Board and senior management, including the appointment of Dr
Ziggy Switkowski as Executive Chair of NBN Co.  
  
On November 12 we appointed three further directors – Justin Milne, Patrick
Flannigan and Simon Hackett – with many decades of combined industry
experience to the NBN Co Board. Several key changes in the executive ranks
have also been made, notably the appointments of Greg Adcock and JB Rousselot,
both experienced former Telstra executives. The search for a CEO is well
advanced as well.  
  
The above reforms are a good platform to start sorting out the mess. The next
step is the Strategic Review, which will provide a frank assessment of the
trade-offs between time to market, service levels and costs involved in
delivering high-speed broadband to all Australians. This Review must be an
exercise in truth telling. We want hand on heart true, realistic and
achievable options prudently costed and scoped on which we can make weighty
decisions. There is no longer any room at NBN Co for spin or for telling the
Minister what people imagine he wants to hear.  
  
In short I want the team, the management, the board at NBN Co to regard every
forecast, every decision as something they would be prepared to defend in a
prospectus for a public listed company. It is critical for the health of that
company that it has forecasts and goals which it can meet. I can only imagine
how debilitating it must have been over the last three years to be constantly
setting and missing and setting and missing one forecast after another.  
  
There is no pre-determined outcome. I have always said that everything is on
the table. The Government will be guided by evidence-based recommendations,
whatever they might be. That is surely the only logical position a responsible
Government could take. The Strategic Review will give NBN Co and the
Government options, and a clearer fact base upon which to base our decisions.
Of course the process of examining, investigating and revising the business
case for the NBN will not end with the Review – it should also be seen as a
stepping stone to a new Corporate plan in mid-2014.  
  
Conclusion  
  
In closing, let me remind you that up to two million households and businesses
across Australia cannot get basic fixed-line broadband at present. Addressing
these underserviced areas first is a key objective of our NBN policy.  
  
As a priority my Department, with the assistance of NBN Co and private
carriers, will provide the Government and Parliament with a ranking of
broadband quality and availability in all areas of Australia. This ranking
will be published for comment and review and guide future prioritisation of
the rollout.  
  
At long last, the NBN rollout will be directed towards the areas that need it
the most.  
  
Some renegotiation of the Telstra Definitive Agreements is required and we
look forward to concluding that before too long and in a spirit of
collaboration and partnership. Telstra after all is NBN Co’s biggest customer
and has a considerable vested interest in the project’s successful completion.  
  
None of this will be easy, however, and I expect we will suffer occasional
setbacks along the way – you can’t expect a turnaround of this magnitude to
unfold without a hitch. But I am cautiously optimistic about the NBN, for the
first time in its four and a half years of existence. We are assembling the
right team and the Strategic Review will help us frame the right plan. But
please remember what I said at the outset – building an NBN that works isn’t a
matter for Government alone. I need your help, your expertise and wisdom, your
advice, and your patience.  
  
Thank you for your time this morning.  
  
ENDS  
  
  
  
References  
  
[1] Cisco VNI – Projected Five Year Growth Rate, Bandwidth Usage:  
  
[2] See for example Robert Kenny & Tom Broughton “Domestic Demand for
Bandwidth” 5 November 2013 produced for the UK Broadband Stakeholder Group.  
  
[3] The terminal value in 2040 for NBN Co required to generate a 7.1 per cent
return on equity will be a matter examined by the Strategic Review. Most
publicly available independent estimates have suggested the required disposal
value of NBN Co to achieve the benchmark is in the order of $90 billion, or
10-12 times EBITDA – a very aggressive assumption.  
  
[4] Available online here, p.92  
  
[5] Available online here, p.84Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (10:45): As honourable
members will be aware tonight is the sixth night of Chanukah, an important
Jewish festival which celebrates the success of the Jewish people in
reconsecrating the temple in Jerusalem in about 165 BCE, which had been
defiled by the Hellenistic monarchy in Syria, which at that stage was ruling
Judea and that part of the world.  
  
  
  
Judas Maccabeus and his supporters rebelled, and when they finally recaptured
the temple they did not have enough sanctified oil to burn for more than one
night—and they had to keep it burning for eight nights. The miracle of
Hanukkah is that this one flask of oil burned for eight nights. It is
celebrated by the Jewish people, and honoured by all people, as an example of
Jewish courage, indomitability, resilience and of course the hope of the
Jewish people always to be a light unto the world. When you consider that the
two great monotheistic religions of the world, Christianity and Islam, are
both directly derived from Judaism, there is some considerable force in that.  
  
But in the midst of all this light there can sometimes be, and regrettably all
too often is, darkness. On 25 October in my electorate of Wentworth there was
an attack on some Jewish families who were returning home after their
traditional Shabbat dinner on Friday night. They were attacked by a group of
eight men who abused them with racial slurs and anti-Semitic language. It left
one of them, 66-year-old Eli Behar, unconscious with internal bleeding in his
head; his wife, of a similar age, was also injured. Their son Shlomo had a
finger broken and required stitches in his head. Two others were also injured
and abused in this attack.  
  
Everybody has condemned this attack, and it is important that we always do
that. Racial attacks, racism, racial abuse—whether it is against Jews or
anybody else—is utterly unacceptable in our society. So as we celebrate and
honour the festival of Hanukkah it is important to remember that, just as we
celebrate that light and that indomitable spirit of the Jewish people, we
stand up and oppose racism and racial abuse in whatever form, against
whomever, by whomever, in our society.Can I say at the outset how incredibly moved I was – I nearly burst into tears
at the end of this room when I came here – because you were kind enough to
mention my Mother was a contributor, not a high-volume contributor, but a
contributor to the ADB (Australian Dictionary of Biography). But I was
extraordinarily moved talking to you three and to others here, because I was
for the first time I can remember, since my Mother’s death, in the company of
historians. And I had forgotten what that felt like. And it is actually very
different. And I can’t quite put my finger on it but I was nearly overwhelmed
by a wave of emotion. So don’tthink I’m just a flinty-hearted politician!  
  
Vice Chancellor, Professor Young, Professor Griffiths, Melanie Nolan – the
editor of the ADB – thank you all for inviting me to launch The ADB’s Story.  
  
It is a story of 50 years of collaborative achievement - 4,000 authors,
hundreds of academics and other professionals who have served on working
parties and the Editorial Board. All writing without fee for this great
national work.  
  
It has been an early example of what we would call today crowd sourcing – a
precursor in some respects in the analogue era of Wikipedia (although with
considerably more disciplined quality control!)  
  
No other national biographical dictionary can boast of this great strength of
continued goodwill, maintained over five decades. You should all be very, very
proud. Sir Robert Menzies established the ANU in 1946. He was a great
supporter of the ADB and was invited to launch its first volume in 1966 here
at University House. This is still the place where the ADB comes to celebrate
its achievements; the picture on the cover of this book was taken just outside
the front entrance of the building. It shows Sir Keith Hancock, the first
Director of the Research School of Social Sciences at the ANU planting an
English oak tree on the southern lawn in 1984. It was Sir Keith, as Ann Moyal
explains in her chapter in The ADB’s Story, who laid the foundations of the
ADB.  
  
Ann Moyal deserves special mention. Not only was she the first employee of the
ADB but wrote Clear across Australia: a History of Telecommunications which
covers the span of Australian’s telecommunications history from the first
telegraph line erected between Melbourne and Williamstown in 1854 to the
industrial and political upheavals involving Telecom in the 1980s until the
election of the Hawke Government in 1983.  
  
As Geoffrey Blainey wrote in the forward to Ann’s history, it is an important
work “for those who work in telecommunications and the politicians,
businessmen and civil servants who have to make decisions as how to harness,
effectively and economically, the next wave of innovations”.  
  
Right now I am grappling with how best to transform the NBN project into a
more cost effective shape. The Strategic Review which we will release shortly
will be an exercise in what historians should appreciate – clear eyed, truth
telling, free of spin and politics. There hasn’t been a lot of that in the
broadband debate over the last six years. But perhaps in the next edition of
Clear across Australia – that would take many volumes for the NBN – perhaps
that can be taken up there.  
  
Now right here at the ANU, in University House was also where the ADB and its
supporters met in 2006 when the Governor-General launched the online version
of the ADB. The site now has a phenomenal 70 million hits a year making it,
surely, the first port of call for researchers of Australian history. It is
certainly the most authoritative port of call. It is copied everywhere and
this is not much consolation - but plagiarism is the sincerest form of
flattery. It was a revelation to me to read of the care that ADB editors take
to verify all the facts in entries. It was a revelation but perhaps not the
most surprising one. Back in 1966 Menzies was delighted to see the ANU take a
leadership role in producing the ADB in line with its foundational charter to
provide leadership in areas of national importance. While we naturally acclaim
our scientists, especially medical scientists, our national achievements in
the humanities and social sciences also deserve acclaim. The ADB is one the
country’s most significant collective research projects. And you are proud of
it and all Australians should be proud of it. I congratulate all of you who
have worked on the ADB as authors or on its Editorial Board and committees. On
behalf of the parliament I congratulate you for your generosity in giving your
time and expertise to this great national endeavour. I congratulate the ANU
for making the ADB freely available online, rather than making it a
subscription service as some other national dictionaries have done.  
  
It means that anyone, anywhere in the world can now read about the endeavours
of those who had made Australia what it is. I understand that the online ADB
has a wide reach and is being consulted not only by scholars and university
students but by school children and the general public who search the web for
more information after watching documentaries and TV dramas. Squizzy Taylor
was this year’s most frequently searched term in the ADB. I also congratulate
all those who have assisted the ADB project by opening their libraries and
archives and helping researchers find those hidden histories. The ADB would
not have been as successful or as authoritative as it is without the support
of the national, state and territory libraries and archives, the national war
memorial, the countless school, regional and business archives and the
Registrar-generals who have given the project access to the birth, death and
marriage records. I understand Margy Burn, assistant director-general of the
NLA, is here tonight. She is another example of a person from the cultural
institutions who has given valuable service to the ADB, first as a member of
the NSW Working Party and now in her role at the National Library. She was
instrumental in winning NLA support for the ARC grant to place the ADB Online.
The NLA has been a particular and longstanding ally of the ADB. I particularly
enjoyed reading in The ADB’s Story about the tireless assistance given to the
project by Brigadier Maurice (Bunny) Austin, Captain Alec Hill and Lieutenant
Colonel Frank Brown. After serving Australia in the defence forces these men
gave long service, as civilians, to the ADB by transcribing, by hand, hundreds
of pages of central office army records for military subjects in the
Dictionary. All this in the days before photocopying. These men and others,
such as Barry Jones, Gough Whitlam and Richard Tolhurst, who used to send the
ADB lists of errors after the publication of each volume, have achieved
legendary status in the ADB. I am proud to count my family as one of those who
have ‘served’. My mother, Coral Lansbury, wrote four ADB entries and they
reflected both professional and personal interests.  
  
Coral was the daughter of two actors and while she didn’t persevere with
acting herself, she was a very successful writer of radio serials and one of
the entries she wrote was George Edwards, a prodigious producer of theatrical
productions and radio dramas. George was a great mimic – he was known as the
man of a thousand voices - and no doubt to save money would play many roles –
as many as six in a single radio drama scene ranging from young children to
old ladies.  
  
Of course radio drama in those days was produced live and Coral’s father,
Oscar Lansbury, was in charge of the sound effects banging drums, firing
pistols, rattling chains, clashing swords and clip clopping cocoanut shells
along a gravel bed as the story unfolded.  
  
But her interest in George Edwards was more than professional – Coral was his
last wife, marrying him in February 1953 – at about 22 is the most sure bet- a
short marriage terminated six months later when George died, his
widow/biographer tells us, of liver disease.  
  
A footnote to the entry would be that the young widow was left living in
George’s apartment in Longworth Avenue, in Point Piper, on Lady Martins Beach.
It wasn’t long before his creditors and heirs booted her out despite the help
of her very good friend and smart young solicitor, Neville Wran, but while
grieving she met my father Bruce who was living, she told me, in a cold-water
basement flat in the same street. They met on the beach and I was conceived
thereabouts in, I suppose, January 1954. And I think it says a lot about my
father's compassionate nature that he went to such great lengths to console a
grieving widow.  
  
As it happens Lucy and I live on Lady Martin’s beach about fifty metres from
where my parents met.  
  
I asked my mother what drew her to my father (their subsequent marriage was
neither long nor happy and I wondered why they had hooked up in the first
place).  
  
She said that my father had swum up and down outside her apartment diving up
and down and pretending to be a porpoise. Such are the accidents that tilt the
hinge of fate.  
  
She also co-wrote with Bede Nairn the entry on William Guthrie Spence the
founder of the Amalgamated Shearers Union in 1886 and the Australian Workers
Union in 1894. Spence was one of the founders too of the Australian Labor
Party and I am delighted to see one of my Cabinet predecessors having been the
Commonwealth Post Master General in 1914-15. And I just digress here for a
moment – one of the very sound things that the new Government has done is
change the titles of all the Ministers – so instead of me being the Minster
for Broadband, Communications and the Digital Economy – we rationalised all
this pompous nomenclature. But I was half hoping that Tony Abbott who is a
lover of tradition might rename my portfolio that of the Postmaster General!
But it didn’t come to pass. That was a bridge to far.  
  
Coral’s initial interest as a historian was in labour history in general and
the AWU in particular, hence her close association and friendship with Bede
Nairn who was one of our most distinguished Labour historians.  
  
Coral moved on from labour history to Victorian literature and wrote
extensively, including in her book “Arcady in Australia” about how Australia
was extolled, but misrepresented, by Victorian writers often under the
influence of Samuel Sidney, Caroline Chisholm and others who saw Australia as
a suitable, and improving, destination for the English working class.  
  
Dickens never came to Australia, although many of his characters did, perhaps
most memorably Magwitch in Great Expectations. And two of his children took
their father’s emigration boosterism to heart and settled in Australia, one of
whom, Edward Bullwer Lytton Dickens was successively a pastoralist in western
NSW, a civil servant and a member of the Legislative Assembly.  
  
Coral’s collaborator on Spence, Bede Nairn was a most prodigious contributor,
writing 80 ADB entries. His role has been charmingly evoked in The ADB’s Story
by former Deputy General Editor, Chris Cunneen. These connections between
authors and ADB staff are a common thread of The ADB’s Story. I congratulate
all past and present staff and contributors of the ADB who are here today for
the wonderful gift you have given to the nation. Long may your work continue.The National Broadband Network is the nation's largest and most costly
infrastructure project.  
  
Regrettably, it is also the most misunderstood and misrepresented. That is
because for the four years of its life under Labor, the NBN has been shrouded
in a web of spin, obfuscation and exaggeration.  
  
Forecasts have been set, missed, set again, missed again, set a third time,
and missed a third time.  
  
Beguiling promises have been offered but not delivered.  
  
This is not a question of fibre versus copper. The key issue is only how far
fibre optics are pushed out into the network and whether they must reach into
every home and every business or, whether existing copper infrastructure can
be used for the last few hundred metres and in so doing save much time,
inconvenience and many billions of dollars.  
  
The NBN project needs, more than anything, an end to spin.  
  
After I became Minister for Communications, I wrote to the employees of NBN
Co, telling them this Government expects to receive the unvarnished truth, not
what they think we want to hear.  
  
Forecasts, business plans and practices need to be informed by sober reality.
NBN Co's people must be free to express their views and perform their work
without worrying whether they are contradicting a Minister's press release.  
  
1\. Background to the Strategic Review  
  
On October 3 the Government asked NBN Co to undertake a Strategic Review of
this vitally important project. In a nutshell we posed three questions:  
  
Where is the project now?  
  
How much will it cost and how long will it take to complete under Labor's
specifications?  
  
And what are our options for completing it sooner and at less cost?  
  
NBN Co delivered a draft report on December 2 and its final report today. We
are releasing the final document presented by NBN Co in full, subject only to
certain redactions sought by the Company to protect its interests in current
and prospective legal and commercial agreements.  
  
The Strategic Review confirms what many Australians suspected, but both of my
predecessors as Communications Minister shamefully concealed from the public.  
  
The rollout is two years behind after three years and won't finish until the
mid-2020s.  
  
Costs are so high that they will add $43 per month to a typical household's
broadband bill.  
  
And NBN Co faces a daunting internal transformation under its new leadership.  
  
Critically, this report is not reverse engineered to justify or rationalise
government policy – whether set out in a speech, conjured up by press release
or sketched on the back of a drink coaster.  
  
I emphasise this point because the facts so methodically presented in the
Review make it plain that the NBN is in a worse state than Australians have
been told.  
  
We were told the case for a fibre-to-the-premises NBN was so potent there was
no need for cost-benefit analysis.  
  
We were assured this costly project could be built without any increase in
broadband charges.  
  
And we were repeatedly told the rollout was on schedule and within budget.  
  
Even just prior to the September 7 election, long after it was clear to most
observers that the rollout was missing every goal, the Member for Grayndler
continued to assert 5.5 million households and businesses would get the NBN by
2016.  
  
The former Minister knew that was untrue as demonstrated by the draft 2013 NBN
Co Corporate Plan he had received, and accorded to a leaked minute published
in The Australian presented to Cabinet in July.  
  
Madam Speaker, turning this project around is a formidable challenge, but we
are determined to complete the project as quickly as we can, at the lowest
possible cost to taxpayers, and affordably for consumers.  
  
And we are equally determined that in the rollout of the NBN, the many
Australians without adequate fixed line broadband today, particularly in
regional areas, receive top priority.  
  
2\. Progress & Prospects of the Current Rollout  
  
I will start by outlining the Strategic Review's findings regarding the
previous Government's NBN policy. Because the situation at NBN Co is far worse
than Parliament and the public were led to believe, worse even than the most
trenchant critics of the NBN imagined.  
  
Rollout Schedule  
  
Construction of the network has fallen further and further behind schedule. At
the end of September the Labor NBN's fibre, satellite and wireless networks
were available at 384,000 homes and businesses.  
  
That's barely 3 per cent of the 13 million premises NBN Co must reach to
finish the job.  
  
It's only 45 per cent of the forecast for September in NBN Co's latest
Corporate Plan.  
  
And it's over a million premises behind Julia Gillard's rollout announcement
in December 2010.  
  
Because of construction delays, the Strategic Review estimates Labor's NBN
will not be completed until 2024. That's three and a half years later than
stated in the Corporate Plan, six years later than claimed in Labor's original
FTTP plan in 2009, and eleven years later than promised by Kevin Rudd in 2007.  
  
  
  
Service Delays  
  
The brownfields rollout – which is connecting homes and businesses in
established areas – is in even worse shape. At the end of September 227,000
premises were 'passed' with fibre, which normally means the occupant can order
a service and receive it within a few days.  
  
But 74,000 were 'service class zero,' a term unique to NBN Co, which indicates
they cannot foreseeably obtain service. These are mostly businesses and multi-
dwelling premises such as apartment blocks.  
  
A further 104,000 were 'service class one,' which indicates fibre hasn't yet
been run from the street into the household or business. This can take six
months or more. So the bottom line is that the occupants of fewer than one in
four established premises 'passed' by fibre can order service and expect to
get it in a reasonable and predictable timespan.  
  
Costs & Revenues  
  
The cost of constructing the NBN to Labor's plans has also blown out. The
Strategic Review estimates completing it requires funding of $73 billion –
another $29 billion or 65 per cent beyond the cost forecast by the current
Corporate Plan.  
  
Unit costs for parts of the network are twice as much as forecast, while NBN
Co is burdened by what the Review frankly admits are excessive corporate
overheads ramped up in anticipation of a level of construction and customer
activity that never materialised.  
  
The revenue assumptions made under Labor are also extremely optimistic, and
entirely at odds with industry experience here or abroad. NBN Co and its
advisers found revenues between now and 2021 have been overstated by $13
billion compared to the midpoint of two more realistic revenue scenarios
presented – one plausibly optimistic, and one plausibly pessimistic.  
  
  
  
Retail Prices  
  
The exact impact of Labor's NBN on the price Australians pay for broadband
depends on investment returns and retail service provider margins. But if NBN
Co's goal is to earn the 7.1 per cent return promised by the previous
Government, and RSP margins remain unchanged in dollar terms, Labor's NBN will
drive up retail prices by between 50 and 80 per cent.  
  
That means a $43 per month increase in the broadband bill paid by a typical
Australian household.  
  
  
  
As I've noted previously, the most shocking aspect of the NBN is Labor's
arrogant disregard for the devastating effect of price rises driven by their
policy on the take-up of broadband among low income households.  
  
Those opposite may not care, but the Strategic Review confirms the gravity of
this problem.  
  
To summarise, Madame Speaker, the cold hard facts about Labor's NBN are
profoundly at odds with the fanciful tales and wishful thinking of those
opposite.  
  
And it is important to note that achieving even these projections of higher
costs and slower construction schedules requires a very significant
improvement in NBN Co's productivity and efficiency from current levels. In
the absence of such an improvement, outcomes will be materially worse.  
  
  
  
3\. Alternative Options for the NBN  
  
The second broad set of questions the Finance Minister and I assigned the
Strategic Review involved exploring alternatives to the existing NBN, which as
we've seen will cost billions more and take years longer to complete than was
ever admitted to the public.  
  
The Strategic Review's baseline scenario is its revised outlook for the NBN
proposed by Labor. Beyond this it considers five additional scenarios:  
  
The second is a radical redesign of the all fibre-to-the-premises NBN. This
cuts one year and $9 billion off the baseline, but at $64 billion it's no
bargain.  
  
The Review examines three intermediate scenarios, which make increasing use of
existing network infrastructure to cut costs to more reasonable levels.  
  
The sixth and final scenario is an NBN utilising a multi-technology mix, or
MTM, model. This optimises the rollout by choosing the most economically
efficient technology in each locality according to its housing stock, existing
infrastructure and user demand.  
  
The scenario recommended by NBN Co's leadership is the last: the MTM model.
But none of the scenarios can escape the irresponsible and wasteful current
and future expenses locked in on Labor's watch. The NBN Co Strategic Review
team estimates the burden of these inescapable costs at $15 billion or more.  
  
  
  
The MTM Rollout  
  
Under an MTM model 26 per cent of premises in the fixed line footprint will
receive very fast broadband over fibre to the premises. Another 44 per cent
are served with fibre-to-the-node, building or distribution point, while the
last 30 per cent are served via upgraded HFC – the cable rolled out for pay TV
in our capital cities in the late 1990s.  
  
HFC networks are capable of delivering hundreds of megabits per second today,
just like fibre, but under Labor's plan Telstra and Optus were to be paid
billions to switch them off.  
  
The MTM scenario is the least expensive modelled scenario, requiring funding
of $41 billion.  
  
  
  
This will still be the biggest and most expensive infrastructure project in
our history and the largest single national broadband project in the world.
Regrettably it will be many billions of dollars more expensive than it would
have been had the MTM approach been taken from the outset. Labor has wasted
billions which we can never recover.  
  
An MTM network can be substantially completed by 2019 – when 91 per cent of
premises in the fixed line footprint will have access to download rates of 50
megabits per second or more, and between 65 and 75 per cent will have 100
megabits per second or more – and entirely finished by 2020.  
  
  
  
Coalition Election Commitments  
  
This means the Coalition's goal of completing the NBN in the next six years –
set out in our April policy, released long before we knew the truth about the
damaged project we would inherit from Labor – can be achieved.  
  
Disappointingly that's not the case for the objective we also expressed of
delivering nationwide access to 25 megabits per second by 2016.  
  
The rollout is drastically further behind schedule than we expected in April.
NBN Co's latest estimate of the established premises it will reach with fibre
by June 2014 is only 357,000 – 772,000 fewer than claimed by Labor at the time
of the election.  
  
And NBN Co is in a far worse condition, its contractor relationships more
damaged, and its capacity to change course and assimilate new technologies
more debilitated and diminished than even we allowed for.  
  
A policy based on the Strategic Review's MTM scenario can, however, deliver
very fast broadband to twice as many premises by 2016 as were ever going to
receive it under Labor.  
  
And Madame Speaker, let me make this pledge on behalf of the Government: we
will work assiduously with NBN Co to do everything we can to surpass the
forecasts in the Strategic Review. Likewise, we remain determined to ensure
our NBN connects those Australians with the worst broadband in priority,
unlike the NBN managed by our predecessors.  
  
Broadband Quality  
  
Upgrading from download rates of 5 megabits per second to 25 or 50 megabits
per second would be welcomed by any internet user, but for those with limited
or no access to adequate fixed broadband at all, it is transformational.  
  
Shortly we will publish the first ever analysis of broadband availability in
Australia. It will confirm areas encompassing about 1.5 million premises have
little or no broadband. Many are in regional areas. All are victims of the
lack of investment in fixed line communications by private carriers over the
past six years, which is yet another damaging by-product of the gap between
Labor's rhetoric and execution on broadband.  
  
Return on Investment  
  
The Review's preferred scenario saves $32 billion compared to business as
usual under Labor. While that's the sort of number the Rudd and Gillard
Governments tossed around with abandon, it's a saving that makes a difference.
It allows the network to earn a return roughly equal to the Commonwealth bond
rate and ensures prices don't rise in real terms.  
  
This Strategic Review points the way to a new corporate plan, but it is not
yet the new corporate plan. More work is required to set the NBN on a
responsible and affordable course.  
  
An important step in the reform of the NBN, announced today, is the
appointment of a new CEO, Mr Bill Morrow, currently the chief executive of
Vodafone Australia. Mr Morrow is a very experienced telecom engineer and chief
executive who has managed and indeed constructed telecom networks in America,
Asia and Europe.  
  
4\. Cost Benefit Analysis and Review of Regulation  
  
Part of the work is a cost-benefit analysis of the economic and social returns
from broadband and a review of the long-term regulation of NBN Co which will
also inform the new Corporate Plan.  
  
The Government is today announcing an experienced and distinguished panel to
carry out that inquiry, which will report by June: it will be chaired by Dr
Michael Vertigan AC, who will be joined by Ms Alison Deans, Dr Henry Ergas and
Mr Tony Shaw.  
  
5\. Conclusion  
  
Madame Speaker,  
  
I congratulate and thank the team at NBN Co and its advisers who prepared the
Strategic Review, which is the most thorough and objective analysis of the
National Broadband Network ever provided to Australians - a highly
professional piece of work prepared in a very tight timeframe.  
  
The internal NBN Co team was led by its Head of Strategy and Transformation,
JB. Rousselot, and ably supported by Tim Ebbeck and many others. The company's
outside advisers were the Boston Consulting Group, KordaMentha,and Deloitte.
Valuable insights came from international experts including Mike Galvin from
Openreach and Mark Ratcliffe from Chorus.  
  
Finally, I want to thank the NBN Board and most of all its Executive Chairman,
Dr Ziggy Switkowski.  
  
Despite the delays and disappointments, the concept of a National Broadband
Network remains popular. Australians want universal access to high quality
broadband and so does the Government because of the misguided way the previous
Government embarked on this project, as much as $15 billion has been
unnecessarily spent to achieve this goal. And those dollars cannot be
recovered.  
  
To date the NBN has been the most wasteful infrastructure project in our
history.  
  
But we are where we are. And let me assure the House that under this
Government, we can complete this project as we promised – sooner, at less cost
to taxpayers and more affordably for consumers. Our first step in that mission
is to end the spin and the wishful thinking, and embrace reality.  
  
I table the Strategic Review of the National Broadband Network and commend it
to the House. It will be available from today on the website of the NBN Co.Well thank you very much and Kung Hei Fat Choi.  
  
Ladies and Gentlemen, I was really touched by the comments that were made
earlier about the wonderful characteristics of people born in the Year of the
Horse, because I was born in the Year of the Horse, but as John Alexander is
giving me a quizzical look there the Member for Bennelong, but John I’m a very
old horse. But my parents must have known it was the Year of the Horse because
they called me Mal-Colm so that was very appropriate that they picked that up.  
  
It’s a great pleasure for me to be here, it’s wonderful to be here with so
many dear Friends, with Allen Lee and Simon Chan from ACCA. With so many of
our Parliamentary colleagues, your representatives, and Gladys Berejiklian,
the Minister for Transport, said to me just a little while ago, “Don’t mention
anybody’s name, don’t mention anybody’s name.” And Gladys, I’m not going to
mention anybody’s name except for you! And what a wonderful job Gladys is
doing as Transport Minister for the State. Ladies and Gentlemen I have to just
acknowledge Matt Thistlethwaite and he’s representing Bill Shorten, the Leader
of the Opposition. I’m also representing Tony Abbot the Prime Minster who
sends his best wishes.  
  
  
  
Can I just say how we’ve got a very, very distinguished parliamentarian here
with his beautiful wife Heather. Phillip Ruddock. Now Phillip Ruddock, I don’t
want to make Phillip blush, I don’t want to make him blush though it would
offset the white hair beautifully, can I just say to you there is nobody in
the public life today who has done more to promote multiculturalism in
Australian than Phillip Ruddock, the multicultural society in which we live,
which I believe, my friends is our greatest strength. Our greatest strength is
not in the minerals underground, it’s not in the broad acres, it is in the men
and women who walk around in Australia in our diversity. Our greatest strength
is our multiculturalism and ACCA’s work in the Chinese community is an
indelible part of that.  
  
Our nation is like a magnificent tapestry and every single one of our
community groups and our ethnic groups and our cultural traditions, woven into
that, is an indelible part of our nation and there is no group that has made a
greater contribution, a more indelible one, than the Chinese community.  
  
You could not imagine modern Australia today without the Chinese community.
And frankly, David Coleman, the new Member for Banks, he wouldn’t be in the
Parliament if it hadn’t been for so much support from the Chinese community.
He’s very pleased too. He said thank god for Allen, he’s very grateful to your
friends in Hurstville. Laurie Ferguson - there is another great friend in the
Parliament of the Chinese community.  
  
Can I just say, we are at the verge of an even deeper and greater relationship
with China. We are partners now – China is one of our largest trading
partners. China, a country that if we go back 40 years or so, Australia didn’t
even recognise. We had no diplomatic relations. They didn’t recognise us, we
didn’t recognise them. What an extraordinary transformation. And the lesson
for all of us is that openness, trade, diversity, multiculturalism, tolerance,
these are the things that define prosperous societies.  
  
And while China is a dramatically different society to Australia, we should
never forget that though it was Mao Tse-tung that asserted Chinese sovereignty
and said in 1949, “Zhong guo ren min zanqilai le” and certainly the Chinese
people did stand up.  
  
But what has made the Chinese people stand up taller and stronger than ever
before, was a less dramatic Chinese leader, Deng Xiao Ping, who went south and
took the example of the Chinese admiral, Zheng He, who set sail across the
Indian Ocean, and opened up China to trade, only to have it shut down by a
very foolish Emperor, and then China became closed. It was Deng Xiao Ping who
said, “When China was open to the world we were strong, when we became closed
we became weak, and we became victimised and conquered”.  
  
He opened up China to the world, and as China becomes more open, as our trade
becomes more intense, our relations become more engaged, our two nations
become stronger and stronger. I want to congratulate you all for the great
work you’re doing in the Chinese community, congratulate ACCA, and say long
life and a prosperous year for all of us, Chinese Australians, all
Australians, in this very auspicious year of the horse. Thank you all very
much.  
  
This is the year, just as on St Patrick’s day everyone can say “Hor sur mah
ren”! Thank you very much!Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (13:20): I wish to thank
the members who have contributed to this debate on the Telecommunications
Legislation Amendment (Consumer Protection) Bill 2013. An efficient and
responsive consumer protection regime is a vital element of our
telecommunications landscape, particularly—as many honourable members,
including the speaker preceding me, have observed—as Australians increasingly
rely on telecommunications technology to support all of their work and
everyday activities. There used to be a time when we spoke—and we still do, in
fact—of the digital economy. The reality is that the economy is a digital
economy. That is the economy. All of our transactions and all of our commerce
are being conducted, in one way or another, in the digital sphere.  
  
  
  
The various measures outlined in the bill, which I gather has the support of
the House, seek to improve consumer safeguards while reducing the regulatory
burden imposed on the telecommunications industry when developing or altering
its governing codes. The self- and co-regulatory frameworks which form the
foundation of the Telecommunications Act 1997 have served consumers and the
industry well.  
  
But as new devices and technologies enter this dynamic market and consumer
preferences change, traditional regulatory frameworks are at increasing risk
of being left behind by technology. So, importantly, amendments in this bill
will give the companies and organisations that develop these industry codes
additional flexibility to respond more quickly and efficiently to the evolving
telecommunications sector. As honourable members have discussed in this
debate, the particular amendments to the telecommunications act in this bill
will permit industry codes to be varied or revised without the rest of the
code becoming obsolete. The telecommunications industry is a fast changing and
exponentially growing sector. Its co-regulatory framework in which industry,
government and consumer groups work in partnership has to be equally dynamic.
It cannot be always playing catch up; it has to be able to move with the
times. The bill improves transparency and accountability of the industry code
development process by requiring co-developers to publish the draft codes and
variations on the web as well as submissions received from industry and the
public. In addition, the bill incorporates changes to the code developers
reimbursement scheme allowing them to be reimbursed for those costs associated
with varying consumer related industry codes.  
  
A core element of the telecommunications industry self-governance regime is
the telecommunications industry ombudsman scheme. The TIO provides an
independent alternative dispute resolution service for residential and small
business consumers and fixed line mobile and internet services in Australia.
This bill will implement a number of measures to improve the TIO scheme's
effectiveness and efficiency. In particular the bill establishes a performance
framework that will ensure that the TIO scheme complies with fundamental
standards of fairness, equity and efficiency. Importantly, the proposed
amendments will also enable these standards and the entire TIO scheme to be
periodically reviewed and adjusted as community expectations evolve. Finally,
the bill makes amendments to the Do Not Call Register act 2006. The proposed
amendment will empower the Australian Communications and Media Authority,
ACMA, to pursue more effectively those telemarketers and fax marketers which
may be using third parties overseas and other intermediaries to reach the
local consumers in breach of the Do Not Call Register provisions.  
  
16 years ago the Howard government introduced the telecommunications act 1997.
As the honourable member for Bradfield, my parliamentary secretary, reminded
the house just a few moments ago. This enabled a new era of competition in
Australia's telecommunications sector while establishing a comprehensive co-
regulatory framework to protect the interests of consumers. The guiding
principle was progressively to remove regulatory barriers and constraints on
genuinely competitive conduct and actively engage with the telecommunications
sector to transfer much of the responsibility for regulation to the industry
itself. The coalition government, the Abbott government, has vowed to continue
this work of removing red tape and by so doing to continue to lift Australia's
productivity. So this bill is part of a broader package of reforms of the
telecommunications industry. At the heart of those reforms is the consumer.
Everyone in this chamber recognises that Australia needs a world-class
telecommunications network. We may disagree about some engineering issues
about the design and construction of such a network but a critical issue is to
make an honest and adequate appraisal of what consumers face in the network
today.  
  
A number of honourable members have spoken about the NBN project. I want to
remind the house of the way in which the government has approached the NBN
since the election. We undertook that we would tell the Australian people the
truth about the state of the project and what the options were for completing
it, and to do so independently. The NBN Co itself conducted a strategic review
with the assistance of some external experts, including Korda Mentha and the
Boston Consulting Group. It was published just before Christmas. What that
showed is that under Labor's plan for the NBN consumers would have faced
internet price rises of up to 80 per cent and a total funding cost of $73
billion.  
  
Ms MacTiernan interjecting—  
  
Mr TURNBULL: it also showed that the project would take an extra four years to
complete and demonstrated that there were alternative approaches using a range
of technologies which will enable the project to be completed for $31 billion
less in terms of total funding, and years earlier. That is a great outcome for
the consumer because they will get better broadband soon as it will be more
affordable. The honourable member for Perth in her speech, and she has been
interjecting while I have been speaking, asked about technologies for better,
more efficient trenching of cables, fibre-optic cables or any cables, where
they are available. I imagine she was talking about micro trenching
technologies. I can assure the honourable member that both I as the minister
and the NBN Co even more so are very aware of that. But one of the things that
the honourable member should be alert to is that her colleague Senator Conroy
while the minister arranged for the NBN Co to enter into a comprehensive
agreement with Telstra of a take or pay kind whereby the NBN Co is obliged to
use Telstra's ducts and pits and if it does not use the nominated vast
quantity of them to pay them for it nonetheless. So yes, there are in some
areas more cost-effective ways of putting fibre underground than horizontal
drilling and installing new ducts and they can be taken into account. But the
honourable members opposite have to remember that this government is not
dealing with a blank sheet of paper here. We can only play the hand of cards
that we have been dealt and what we have been left with by the previous
government. That has been a shocking mess.  
  
Let me go on in the time available to me to continue to describe the things we
have done. We have ensured that the board now has members who have spent
lifetimes in the telecommunications sector, including Ziggy Switkowski,
chairman and former CEO of Telstra, and Patrick Flannigan in the business of
constructing distributed linear infrastructure.  
  
We now have a very qualified board. We have identified and engaged a new chief
executive, Mr Bill Morrow, who is a very distinguished international telecom
executive, highly regarded around the world as a turnaround specialist in the
telecom sector. So now we have a highly qualified board and, joining us very
shortly, a highly qualified CEO. There is another review going on at the
moment which will be completed in March of the satellite and fixed wireless
part of the project, which faces, as many honourable members know, very, very
serious problems—a mixture of misleading information being provided by the
previous government coupled with what can only be described as bungling or
incompetence in terms of the management of it. That report will be completed
in March. This is a very considerable and expensive mess and, as I have said
many times to honourable members, there are tens of billions of dollars that
will at the end of that day have been wasted because of commitments made and
decisions taken by the Labor government without proper homework.  
  
One of the other things we are doing is conducting a thoroughgoing cost-
benefit analysis. Of course, that should have been done by the previous
government before they embarked on this in the first place, but it is better
late than never. But it would have been better if it had been done at the
outset.  
  
The bottom line is that as far as the NBN project is concerned, the
government's commitment is to be completely transparent and treat the people
of Australia as you would treat the shareholders in a public listed company,
to provide them with timely information about the state of the project and to
in effect open the books of the NBN Co, and we are doing that. Instead of
having to have rollout figures dragged out of the minister with great
difficulty and pain, every week the NBN Co now publishes its latest rollout
figures on its website. Every week they are published there. There will be a
quarterly report done by the NBN Co management on the financial performance
and of course the construction performance of the project. That will be done
by the NBN Co management in exactly the same way as if it were a public listed
company. Maximum transparency is going to be given to this project.  
  
Honourable members should recognise that the failure of the NBN project under
Labor has resulted in so many Australians who had no broadband in 2007 still
not having it today. The truth is that some Australians have very good
broadband—excellent broadband, world-class broadband. Many Australians have
little or no broadband. You would think that, if the government were going to
spend money on a broadband project, it would prioritise those who were in
greatest need. But not only did the Labor government not do that; it did not
even ask the question of where those underserved areas were. So shortly we
will be releasing a set of maps which show those parts of Australia—those
districts, those neighbourhoods, if you like—where broadband services are
good, okay, average and very, very poor. That information will inform the
construction of the NBN so that, as far as practicable, the worst served areas
are prioritised. Our commitment is to prioritise the worst served areas.  
  
Ziggy Switkowski and I went out to Blacktown recently to see some work that
had been committed to and planned under the previous government which showed
the NBN fibre being rolled out in streets where there was not one but two
hybrid fibre co-ax networks. Under the ground there was Telstra's HFC; up on
the poles was Optus's. From either of those networks residents in the street
could order a 100-megabit-per-second service, yet that area was being
prioritised when areas in your electorate, Mr Deputy Speaker Craig Kelly, and
indeed in outer suburban electorates in the big cities were being completely
left behind. The former government did not even bother to ask the question in
a systematic way of where those underserved areas were.  
  
There has been a massive cultural change in the management of the NBN Co. It
is going to be run as a transparent business, being straight with the
Australian people, instead of treating it as a political exercise where any
information it releases has to conform with the minister's political agenda
and not otherwise.  
  
Returning to this bill, the amendments in the bill, the Telecommunications
Legislation Amendment (Consumer Protection) Bill 2013, will ensure the
sustainability of the proven co-regulatory telecommunications framework while
continuing to safeguard the interests of Australian consumers. I commend the
bill to the House.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (15:37): I thank Her
Excellency the Governor-General for outlining the direction and priorities of
our new government: cutting taxes, reducing regulation, redefining the role of
government and investing in 21st century broadband, roads and hospitals. If
there is a single philosophical thread weaving all of these reforms together,
surely it is this: that we are on our side of politics believe that the role
of government is to enable citizens to do their best, whereas our opponents on
the Labor side believe that government's role is to tell citizens what is
best. The stark difference that we see again and again through every policy
area bears out the importance and the significance of this distinction and the
failures of the 'government knows best' approach which were so apparent in the
last six years of Labor government. A touchstone of all of that is freedom, a
belief in the individual, a belief that citizens, individuals, private
businesses, are best able to chart their own destiny.  
  
  
  
We see this very clearly in my own portfolio of communications. The rise of
the Internet, which became commercial, I suppose, 20 years ago and has
gathered more and more momentum and more and more coverage, has revolutionised
the communications world and the media world. Our laws and regulations and
assumptions were all based around a series of platforms: newspapers,
magazines, licensed broadcasters in radio and television, subscription
television whether on cable or satellite. These great platforms were the only
means by which people could communicate to the mass market. They were the
gatekeepers and they posed huge barriers to competition. Then the Internet
came along and devastated all of that. It provided a very cost-effective
platform for advertising and so undermined significantly, materially, the
business model of newspapers, particularly those like the big metropolitan
broadsheets of yesteryear, which depended on classified advertising. It takes
on subscription television. People now can buy the programs, download the
programs they want to watch when they want to watch them from the Internet.
They do not have to buy a bundled package. Netflix arises to take on all of
the cable TV companies in the United States and it has many imitators around
the world. So these are revolutionary times.  
  
We have all been very concerned especially about the damage to the newspaper
business, not because any of us I hope are so naive as to be filled with a
particular affection for newspapers or journalists as a group or proprietors
as a group or shareholders of newspapers—all businesses have to deal with the
travails of the world and adapt to them. But newspapers and journalists have a
very fundamental role to play in our democracy, or I should say journalism
does. The work that journalists do in a free media is just as important as any
work that we do here in this chamber or in the other place as legislators or
that the judiciary do or that the Public Service do in running the country. We
cannot be a democracy without a free media. So the concern naturally was that
as the resources were drained away from those newspapers which had been the
big foundations of journalism so the quality of our democracy would diminish
as the quality of journalism and the number of journalists, the resources
available to journalism, were diminished too. That has been a matter of very
real concern.  
  
What we have also seen with the arrival of the Internet is an opening up of
competition on a scale that would have previously been unimaginable. If you
think back 20 or 30 years, the idea of there being new newspapers to compete
with the Sydney Morning Herald, the Age, the Daily Telegraph or the Melbourne
Herald Sun was fanciful. Every now and then some rich person would try and
start their own newspaper to take on one of the established ones but it was
generally a very unsuccessful effort. I am thinking of Lang Hancock in Perth
and Robert Holmes a Court for a period. But what the Internet has done is
lowered the cost of entry into the media market. So the same time as we have
been lamenting the demise of the great beasts of the media jungle we have seen
more competition than ever. We have seen The Guardian Online, we have seen The
Mail Online. We have seen the paper I launched on Friday, Morry Schwartz's
Saturday Paper, and so many others—a host of them, too many to name. We have
never had more competition and more diversity in our media world than we have
today. Yet it is remarkable that under the previous government their obsession
was with the technological constructs of the past. They said, 'Rupert
Murdoch's News Corporation has the majority share of metropolitan daily
newspaper circulation.' So it has had, for nearly 30 years since a Labor
government enabled Mr Murdoch to buy the Herald and Weekly Times group. But
that share of the total media and information pie represented by newspapers is
getting smaller and smaller as more and more competitors come onto the scene.  
  
Yet it was precisely at that time—when a media landscape that had been frozen
for decades suddenly started to thaw and was open to so much competition—that
the Labor government wanted to constrain freedom and regulate the media in a
way it had never been regulated before in peacetime.  
  
So there is a fundamental difference between the way I am approaching this
portfolio of communications and, indeed, the way the government is approaching
this area and its Labor predecessor. Labor believed that the arrival of the
Internet required more regulation and less freedom. We say that the arrival of
the Internet enables much more competition and therefore more freedom and that
therefore there is a need for less regulation not more. You could not have a
starker difference between our government and its predecessor, and the
difference is that we believe in freedom.  
  
I note in passing that some commentators on the Conservative or the right wing
side of political debate have criticised me for launching Morry Schwartz's new
paper The Saturday Paper on Friday. They apparently would like me to be—just
as Senator Conroy was the minister for left wing communications or the
minister for communications that agree with the Labor Party—the minister for
right-wing communications or communications that agree with the Liberal Party.
And that is not the case. I am the Minister for Communications. I am the
minister that seeks to ensure that we have the freest and most diverse media
we can possibly manage. I am the minister that wants to take away the barriers
to competition wherever I can so that as many voices can speak out as
possible, and whether they are left or right is of no concern to me in my
capacity as the Minister for Communications. As the member for Wentworth
seeking re-election I may be disappointed if the anti-Liberal forces in the
media urge that I should not to be re-elected, fair enough—that will be
distressing at election time. But in my ministerial capacity and in my role as
the custodian of this vital portfolio in the government, my job is to stand up
for freedom. Those who think that this Liberal minister should be like Senator
Conroy and seek to persecute or suborn or bully those who do not agree with
him have got it completely wrong—they are wrong in principle and they are
wrong in practice. Everybody has a vested interest in freedom—everybody.
Whether you are on the right or on the left you have a vital, vested interest
in freedom. As I said in one brief comment on the weekend to one of these
critics, mangling Bill Clinton: 'It's the democracy, stupid!' It's the
democracy—that's what we are committed to.  
  
You see another example of the Labor Party's big government obsession in their
approach to broadband. The fundamental failure and mistake of the previous
government—and it was a fundamental one and one that is impossible to reverse
at this juncture—was to be genuinely mad enough to imagine that the government
was the right agency to build a new telecommunications network. It was back to
the days of the Postmaster General. Every other comparable country in the
world in approaching the challenge of getting broadband services upgraded has
done this: they have encouraged the private sector to do the job. They have
provided judicious subsidies to ensure that people in remote or regional areas
have their services upgraded where it otherwise would not be commercial to do
so. And the virtue of that is that it ensures that the government was up for a
certain amount of money, a sum certain. And all of the execution and
construction risk, and the business risk, was left with the private sector. An
excellent example of that—you do not have to look very far—is what John Key
did in New Zealand, or, indeed, what the British Government has has done in
the UK. There is a very long list. So the craziness of the previous
government's policy was right from the jump, having the hubris, in defiance of
experience both in Australia and everywhere else, to imagine that the
government was the best party to do the job. So, in Australia, in the
socialist paradise of Senator Conroy and Julia Gillard and Kevin Rudd , we had
a situation where the execution and business risk of this vast project was
entirely vested in the government, in the taxpayer, in other words, and the
only people who got the cheque and have the certainty were in fact the
telephone companies, Telstra and Optus, who sold their assets to the
government—an extraordinary failure.  
  
So it is no surprise that the project has run late. It has run over budget.
Indeed, as Ziggy Switkowski observed, just last week, so far the NBN Co. has
invested $6.4 billion of taxpayers' money and in its fibre rollout passed less
than two per cent of the country.  
  
The challenge that we have is that we are not in a position to turn back the
clock. We are not in a position to undo all of the mistakes the Labor Party
has made. So what we have to do is to mitigate the madness and to try to
complete the project as quickly and cheaply and hence as affordably as
possible. As I said in question time, one of the consequences of the Labor
Party's approach of course would have been, had it been persevered with, that
broadband prices would have been up to 80 per cent higher. There is no magic
in that; there is nothing unusual in that: if you have a massively expensive,
overcapitalised government monopoly, with no competition to keep it honest,
you are going to get very high prices. You do not get cheap prices by
overcapitalising a business, especially one that is a monopoly.  
  
I noticed earlier, the member for McEwen speaking about his electorate and
saying that people have been moving away because of lack of broadband.  
  
He should really raise that with his colleagues, because in six years of Labor
virtually nothing was done. There was the best part of two million premises
without access to broadband in 2007, and there has only been a tiny chip into
that in the intervening six years.  
  
And then, I might say, with a chutzpah that is quite epic, he went on to
complain that there were mobile phone black spots in his electorate. No doubt
there are, and that is one of the reasons why the coalition government, the
Abbott government, has allocated $100 million to address them—or to address as
many as we can with that sum of money. But it is worth noting that in six
years of the Labor government not one cent was spent to fix mobile black
spots.  
  
It is the same point about regional and remote broadband subsidies, in areas
where there is no mobile phone reception. As we all know, this is by far the
biggest complaint—as you would know in particular, Deputy Speaker, from your
electorate of Maranoa—and by far the biggest telecommunications concern in
rural and regional Australia. In those areas, of course, because of the small
population, it is not necessarily economic for the telcos to make the
investment, so there is a role for government, but in six years not one cent
was spent by Labor on upgrading or addressing mobile phone black spots. But,
to date, $6.4 billion has been invested by the NBN in passing less than two
per cent of premises in Australia.  
  
I have spoken earlier about the other critical issue, but it bears repeating.
It is this issue of affordability. It is no good having the best broadband
technology in the world, which enables a household of six to engage in
simultaneous high-definition interactive cybergaming across the world—there is
no point having that—if battlers cannot afford it.  
  
Mr Husic interjecting—  
  
Mr TURNBULL: The member for Chifley is interjecting away there because he does
not like to know the truth. The truth is that there are many people in his
electorate who cannot afford broadband today, and he in his hubris has turned
his back on them and supported a broadband policy that will make broadband
less affordable than it is today. Forty-one per cent of the least well off
households, the lowest income households, the households with the lowest 20
per cent of income in Australia, do not have access to the Internet at home.
Four per cent of the top 20 per cent do. What do you reckon the difference is?
I think it is all about affordability, don't you? You do not have to be a
rocket scientist to work that out. And yet, there was Labor—in a manner
calculated, inevitably—determined to make broadband less affordable than it
already is. That was the inevitable consequence, as night follows day. If you
overcapitalise a business and you render it immune from competition, that will
result in higher prices. There is no alternative.  
  
And that is the critical objective of our government when it comes to the NBN:
to get this project finished, to ensure that people everywhere have access to
very fast broadband, using the mix of technologies—in common with all of the
other major developed countries: the United States, the UK, Germany, Belgium,
France; take your pick—that will ensure that we have a broadband network that
is built nearly four years sooner and $32 billion less expensively and, above
all, to make it more affordable.  
  
Labor's arrogant indifference to the position of the people that they claim to
represent, the least well off Australians, is truly chilling. It really is
truly chilling. Labor's policy would result in average broadband prices
increasing by $43 a month, increasing by up to 80 per cent a month. That is
the fact. They can run around, wave their arms and talk about gigabits and
gigabytes. They can do all of that. They can talk about all these things,
which most of them do not understand. And yet the bottom line is this, and we
all know it, whether we are in big business or little business: you give the
Labor Party a project like this to manage and they will make a hash of it. You
overcapitalise a government monopoly and you will get higher prices, and the
consequence is that a vital service which has been unaffordable for many to
date will become unaffordable to many more in the future.Good morning.  
  
Thank you to Suzanne Campbell and to the AIIA board for the invitation to
participate in today's conference.  
  
Identifying meaningful patterns through the analysis of data is nothing new.
In the 1850s, physician John Snow famously identified the source of London's
cholera epidemic through the analysis of data and pattern identification.
Importantly, Snow's work was an early example of the power of data—the power
of analysis and the ability to identify meaningful trends. This not only
disproved the common theories of the day, it confirmed that the cause of the
epidemic was the contaminated Broad Street Pump.  
  
Now, I would not want to discourage any contemporary health researchers from
emulating Snow and closely investigating the filthiest parts of their city,
but the good news is that we do have alternatives. Modern technology, not
least of which the internet, is doing that for us— generating unprecedented
volumes of information, of data, to shape products and services and drive the
quality and effectiveness of what governments and business can do.  
  
The opportunities presented by 'big data', data so large and complex that it
would have been impossible for John Snow to identify meaningful patterns using
traditional techniques, is possible because of two key factors:  
  
The cost of storing transmitting and processing or analysing data is cheaper
today than it has ever been. In the last 50 years the cost of digital storage
has halved roughly every two years, storage density has increased 50-million
fold and our ability to process that data has increased exponentially doubling
every eighteen months.  
  
This has, in part, led to an explosion in the volume of data available to
consumers, to business and, of course, to government. In 2013, the amount of
stored information in the world was estimated to be around 1200 exabytes. This
is the equivalent of giving every person living on Earth today 320 times as
much information as is estimated to have been stored in the Library of
Alexandria. 1  
  
And it's important to remember, this data is mostly stored in a machine
readable form—a profound difference between todays easy to access data and
previous techniques used to collect and store.  
  
Secondly, the explosion in the sheer volume of information coupled with the
similarly explosive growth in processing power has meant that the need to find
a scrupulously accurate sample (the world of small data) has been overtaken by
the availability of all of the data—much of it messy but in such volumes that
new correlations can be found. In other words quantity trumps quality.  
  
Until fairly recently, although data was considered valuable, it was either
seen as ancillary to the core operations of running a business, or limited to
relatively narrow categories such as intellectual property or personal
information. Today, all data is valuable, in and of itself and to unlikely
sources. What is the best predictor of a flu outbreak? Searches on Google for
flu remedies!  
  
We like to think of sites like Google and Amazon as the pioneers of big data,
but of course governments were the original gatherers of information on a mass
scale, and they still rival any private enterprise for the sheer volume of
data they control.  
  
All those digital bits that we have gathered can now be harnessed in novel
ways, to serve new purposes and unlock new forms of value—new opportunities.
But this requires new ways of thinking and will challenge our institutions and
even our sense of identity. The one certainty is that the amount of data will
continue to grow, as will the power to process it all.  
  
I think there are two key questions that Government's must ask when collecting
and analysing data.  
  
Firstly, we must question how we can best use all this data to improve the way
we run government—both in making government more efficient and in improving
the way we make evidence based policy decisions.  
  
Secondly, we must ask, 'who is best placed to exploit the data that government
collects'? Is this a role for government or are industry and citizens, the
public, more innovative and resourceful in extracting value from data?  
  
One obvious example where government can deliver genuine value to the public
is in the area of online customer services– an area where information, where
complex data, can drive deep customer insights. If these insights are
harnessed in an intelligent way– and there's no reason they shouldn't be—we
have a real opportunity for government to deliver more accessible and better
quality services.  
  
We are, unfortunately, behind our peers in the private sector when it comes to
utilising technology—harnessing the power of digital innovation—to deliver
better and more accessible services online.  
  
This is particularly apparent when you look to the banking sector, with most
of our banks conducting the majority of their transactions with customers
online. In fact, Michael Harte, the CIO of the Commonwealth Bank recently told
me that the CBA conducts 95 per cent of its transactions virtually, that is to
say over the Internet.  
  
The key here is not that banks, or even government, are delivering more
content, more and more services, online—although this is a good start. The key
is, and this is an important point, services are constantly evolving to meet
the expectations of users. Gone are the days of three or even one year refresh
cycles—instead, user patterns are driving deep insights into the preferences
of consumers and this is allowing business, and will allow government, to
deliver more targeted, better quality services than before.  
  
That is why we are committed to making available all major government services
and interactions with individuals online—to make government more accessible,
more efficient. This is the cornerstone of our Convenient Services Anytime
Anywhere policy.  
  
Enhancing whole-of-government data connectivity and better use of data and
analytics will provide even greater efficiencies and effectiveness. To date,
there have been isolated activities to improve data sharing and connectivity
between agencies, but we need a targeted and coordinated approach to transform
the business model of how government agencies currently operate.  
  
So what does this use of big data analytics within a government context look
like?  
  
A great example is the Australian Tax Office, recently nominated as the lead
agency by AGIMO for a data analytics centre of excellence—to better understand
their client base and manage their engagement strategy.  
  
A data initiative that I am particularly proud of is the Department of
Communications' MyBroadband website, which allows Australians to find out the
ratings of broadband availability and quality in their local area based on
analysis conducted at the end of last year.  
  
The website is a result of the Broadband Availability and Quality Report,
which contained findings based on a spatial analysis and analytics of the
coverage of broadband customer access networks, along with an estimate of
their likely performance based on known constraints.  
  
This analysis used available information and measured broadband availability
as a description of the infrastructure currently in place and used the
possible speeds achievable over that infrastructure as the measure of quality.
As the NBN is rolled out, this data will be updated to reflect the rollout's
progress and most importantly the data in that Report will guide the rollout
as we prioritise the least well served areas.  
  
It is remarkable that after so many years of politicians talking about
broadband and the digital divide that until now there had been no effort to
systematically map where broadband availability was good, bad or indifferent.  
  
I should note here, as I have before, how much I appreciate the remarkable job
my Department did to produce that report in such a short time.  
  
There are real issues facing government in exploiting data analytics within
the public service.  
  
Access and retention of staff is one of them. Data analytics requires a new
type of employee, one who has the right mix of technical experience, business
knowledge, motivation and, importantly, technological imagination.  
  
Data infrastructure is another. Government purchasing and tendering processes
don't lend themselves to rapid change and adjustment of IT infrastructure as
technology evolves. This issue has really only been addressed sporadically by
departments. We are moving to a more flexible approach that leverages the
private sector to coordinate enabling infrastructure as government departments
move into larger data sets and more complex analytics.  
  
Of course, one of the key issues for government, and that which is of greatest
concern to citizens, is privacy. Big data raises new challenges in respect to
the privacy and security of data.  
  
Maintaining the public's trust in the Government's ability to ensure the
privacy and security of the data it stores and has control over is paramount.  
  
The use of anonymised data, clear government policies on privacy and adequate
IT security are all key methods currently being used within Government to
ensure we use data analytics appropriately to maximise service delivery and
efficiency.  
  
There are a number of specific issues around privacy that need to be managed
if agencies are to realise the benefits of big data, including:  
  
The second, and arguably more important question of how the government should
use its data is how it can best be exploited for public benefit. It is
important to remember that government's data value is latent and requires
innovative analysis to unleash.  
  
But despite their special position in capturing information—governments are
the only institution or organisation that can compel people to provide them
with information—they are often ineffective at using it. Part of this may be
because of the personal or confidential nature of the information government
collects—whether it be health records or tax returns—but, more often than not,
it is government's lack of imagination and absence of incentives to exploit
the great value from data.  
  
The Open Data movement contends that the best way to extract the value of
government data is to give it to the private sector and citizens—to make it
truly open. There is a principle behind this as well. When the state gathers
data, it does so on behalf of its citizens, and thus it ought to provide
access to society (except in a limited number of circumstances, such as when
doing so might harm national security or the privacy rights of others). 2  
  
We have already seen disruptive use of government data give rise to real time
apps—for example, one of my favourites the NSW transport app TripView, which
allows individuals to track the exact time of arrival of a bus or train from
their nearest stop based on real time data. These real time apps are a game
changer in mass transit. Hitherto received wisdom was that mass transit should
be so frequent that patrons did not need to use a timetable—they could show up
at the station or bus stop knowing that within five or ten minutes the train
or bus would arrive. That is feasible in big densely settled cities but in
most parts of Australia, it is hard to deliver. However a real time app like
Tripview means that you know exactly where your bus is, whether it is on time
or late and you can therefore manage your own time to be there when it
arrives—if its running ten minutes late, have another coffee, linger on your
walk to the station to chat to a neighbor. In short it materially reduces the
inconvenience of less frequent services by giving the would be traveler
certainty about when to turn up.  
  
By making available its extensive data sets, government—through open data—has
a critical enabling role to play. Would the real time app, and countless
others, be available without free and easy to access government data? In many
cases the answer, quite simply, would be no. Or, at least in the absence of
open data, accessing government data sets would be a costly and time consuming
exercise.  
  
Unfortunately, in Australia, the private sectors interest in leveraging public
data has been limited simply because of the lack of data that has been made
publicly available.  
  
We are committed to working with agencies to ensure the publication of data
becomes a routine government function.  
  
And importantly, if we are to catch up with the United States, which has
published more than 200,000 data sets, we must ensure that data is not only
published regularly but in a machine readable form.  
  
We are committed to turning around our slow start to empower the private
sector to capitalise on the disruptive potential of information, of data.  
  
The establishment of data.gov.au and the publication of the Principles on Open
Public Sector Information (PSI) have been important steps in opening up the
data held by Commonwealth agencies for re-use.  
  
The current Australian Government's Principles on open public sector
information state that open access should be our default position. And this
approach is reflected in the United States too where President Barack Obama,
on his first full day in office, who issued a presidential memorandum that,"in
the face of doubt, openness prevails [when it comes to the release of agency
data]." 3  
  
And, as recommended by the Government 2.0 Taskforce, the information must be
truly open. So unless there are good reasons, to the contrary, government
information should be:  
  
Making big datasets available to the public will allow start-ups to leverage
this information to drive new and exciting innovations, many of which will
lead to productivity improvements, like the real time transport app I
mentioned earlier.  
  
We have an extraordinary national asset at our fingertips, one that should,
and will, be used to drive new insights, improve access to information and
underpin the types of services that are delivered.  
  
I look forward to the communique AIIA will be releasing at the end of this
summit.  
  
Thank you  
  
[ENDS]I am very honoured to speak here tonight at Chatham House, the home of the
Royal Institute of International Affairs.  
  
Chatham House has been at the forefront of policy debate on international
affairs ever since it was established in the wake of the 1919 Paris Peace
Conference and in the decades that followed every major international issue
has found a thoughtful and constructive chamber of debate and ideas here in St
James.  
  
There is always no shortage of challenges and crises claiming our attention.
But there are few as important as the debate about the governance of the
Internet, a debate which Richard Haas from your Manhattan counterpart, the
Council on Foreign Relations, has described as the most significant strategic
issue in 2014.  
  
The Internet has transformed the world.  
  
It has transformed us.  
  
Before the Internet and for all of human history, the default was always to
forget. We had to go to great efforts to remember whether it was painting on a
cave wall, memorising ballads, writing, photographing.  
  
But now as more and more of our lives are lived or at least recorded on line,
in large part at our own initiative, is anything able to be forgotten? Things
can be overlooked, but can they ever be deleted?  
  
Our ideas of space and place are utterly transformed. In 1978 I went up to
Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar from Australia. Once there I had no news of
Australia beyond the occasional cricket score and whatever newspaper clippings
Lucy would include in our frequent correspondence. Telephone calls were far
too expensive except for emergencies.  
  
In 2001 our son Alex went to Harvard, only 23 years apart. Telephony was so
cheap it was almost free, email was free and he could read every Australian
newspaper, listen to Australian radio whenever he wished. In a generation that
whole experience of travelling abroad to study had been irrevocably
transformed.  
  
One industry after another, one job after another that felt it was immune from
foreign competition has become trade exposed. Greater competition has come
with greater opportunities.  
  
Rupert Murdoch predicted ruefully in the late 90s that the Internet would
destroy more profitable businesses than it would create, and that may be true
for his own empire, but overall the Internet has created so much opportunity –
economic, social, intellectual, political than could ever have been imagined.  
  
We are on the verge of a world in most people, and not just in the developed
world, are connected to the Internet and hence at least potentially to each
other 24/7 with a smart phone just like the one we all have in our pockets
tonight.  
  
There is no institution or infrastructure more important to the future
prosperity and freedom of our global community than the Internet.  
  
And in what should be a humbling lesson for politicians and governments, this
Internet has grown almost entirely without the direction or control of any
government.  
  
This is not to say that it was developed, like the British Empire was
acquired, in an absence of mind, but rather that while it had its origins with
the research programmes of the US Department of Defence which led to the
ARPANET, the role of the US Government since then has been admirably hands
off.  
  
Before I delve a little into the detail of the IANA function and the future of
ICANN, let me say, at least on behalf of our own Government, how indebted we
are to the United States not simply for its role in establishing the Internet
but above all in its restraint culminating as we know in the recent decision
of the US Government to finally withdraw entirely from any role in the
technical governance of the Internet so long as the independence and freedom
of that administration of the domain name system from other governmental
control can be established.  
  
Our Government, like Britain’s, is committed to freedom on and of the
Internet. That means the governance of the Internet should not be in the hands
of any government or group or organisation of governments.  
  
And I should note that in my discussions today with the Secretary of State for
Culture, Media and Sport, Mr Sajid Javid, and the Minister for Culture,
Communications and Creative Industries, Mr Ed Vaizey we found ourselves
absolutely of the same mind on this question.  
  
We believe that ensuring that the architecture and administration of global
cyberspace remains free of government domination or control is one of the key
global strategic issues of our time.  
  
Rather like the House of Lords in Iolanthe, the role of the US Government in
the governance of the Internet has been to have “done nothing in particular
but do it very well.”  
  
The central contractual role of the National Telecommunications and
Information Administration (NTIA) in the management of key internet domain
name functions has in practice amounted to the retention of no more than
reserve powers, providing an umbrella of security and confidence as the
internet community, or to use the current inelegant jargon, the global multi-
stakeholder community, continued to demonstrate its ability to manage the
domain name system equitably and efficiently in the interests of the world,
not just one nation or one interest group..  
  
In purely technical terms, it’s a role that has basically been nothing more
than a rubber stamp between the policy and implementation mechanisms encoded
elsewhere within the system; a checks and balance trigger, a relatively small
function in the scheme of things but a big symbol, and a big area of
international focus.  
  
So the question becomes: if we remove an important power, albeit one never
exercised, that acted as an external check on ICANN’s power and processes do
we replace it with another? Or do we focus on ICANN’s internal governance
mechanisms and ensure they are sufficient and robust, so that some form of
external mechanism is no longer needed at all?  
  
Should, for example, the community be looking for ways to structurally
separate the policy, implementation and oversight functions within ICANN, or
are other internal governance mechanisms needed?  
  
There seem to me to be two separate but related issues here. The first is one
of confidence, capability, accountability – in other words can ICANN be
trusted to continue to do the job of administering the DNS or will the removal
of the reserve power of the NTIA contract cause it to run of the rails and if
so who will pull it back?  
  
The second question is that of legitimacy. Why does ICANN have the right to
undertake this function? And who is ICANN? It is fine to say in a breezy sort
of way that it represents the global community of the Internet – the multi-
stakeholder system – but how can we be sure that the board of ICANN is fairly
representative of that community and if the Internet belongs to the world
shouldn’t there be a more formal accountability.  
  
The great virtue of the NTIA contract was that the United States Government
being both the founder of the Internet (in many respects) conferred
legitimacy. The weakness has been of course that some other countries
suspected the US Government’s role was a controlling one and of course this
anxiety has been greatly exacerbated by the Snowden revelations.  
  
Of course, internet governance is not government; but there are important
lessons to be learned from the way in which the parliamentary system of
government practiced in Britain and Australia has, without a highly
prescriptive constitution, provided a culture where fundamental principles of
accountability, democracy, freedom of speech, rule of law among others are
developed and maintained. The organic, as opposed to prescriptive, nature of
our political culture is its greatest strength..  
  
Any new governance arrangements within ICANN must not only be similarly robust
and sustainable, they must encourage, promote and allow development and
evolution. This is one of the strengths of ICANN’s current Affirmation of
Commitment with the US, which provides for the periodic and ongoing review of
key governance mechanisms within ICANN, including review of its accountability
and transparency arrangements, with a view to continuous improvement.  
  
Whether this needs to be replaced by something new, either at the same time as
the IANA transition or separately, is an open question. However, as with the
IANA transition, we should be focusing on the underlying goals rather than
being constrained by the current model.  
  
The NTIA announcement is one small step in the inevitable and necessary
evolution. Does it create a power vacuum? No. On the contrary, the US
Government’s announcement can be seen as a significant vote of confidence in
ICANN’s maturity, and acknowledgement of a successful evolutionary process.  
  
It seems to me that as to the first question, that of capacity and
accountability, the answer is simply that ICANN has demonstrated that the
multi-stakeholder system has worked and that if there are refinements they
probably lie in greater transparency and accountability. As far as legitimacy
is concerned, it seems to me that the legitimacy of the multi-stakeholder
system is derived from the fact of its successful operation. It is not a
system or structure that would be designed by constitutional theorists, but it
works.  
  
We should think about this task not as though we were designing a political
system but rather contributing to the development of an ecosystem, one that
will sustain itself and evolve for decades to come.  
  
Global Commission of Internet Governance  
  
It’s not an easy task, and I applaud Chatham House for fully involving the
international community in the Global Commission of Internet Governance. In
taking leadership, the Global Commission is addressing four key themes.  
  
I would like to reflect for a moment on the preservation of innovation which
in this case includes critical internet resources, infrastructure and
competition policy.  
  
Innovation by its very nature is disruptive, it destroys and replaces as it
reinvigorates and reinvents. That’s a good thing; it’s the natural order of
change and renewal. But it’s not enough to simply preserve innovation; we need
to stimulate innovation... change... even if that means the multi-stakeholder
model of internet governance ends up being expressed in a completely new form.  
  
At the end of the day, this is a basically a contest between those who believe
the Internet should be based on an open, free market participatory principle
and those who believe it is a decentralised artefact that should be reined in
and made subject to centralised control.  
  
We should be aiming to ensure that any changes continue to stimulate
innovation that strengthens the multi-stakeholder model with new devices, new
methodologies. A key challenge will be how to evolve key internet governance
organisations without their losing their multi-stakeholder and private-sector
led character.  
  
Trust and Privacy  
  
For those who see the internet as benign agent of social and economic good, it
is that. For others, whose motives are suspect at best, evil at worst, it is a
strategic domain to be seized and controlled with all of us marked as
potential victims in one form or another.  
  
The internet, as with the physical world, is whatever someone, some nation,
wants it to be ... it’s both a global village and a Wild West.  
  
The focus on the governance of the internet parallels a rise in suspicion,
supercharged by the Snowden revelations. Their shadow has cast a long pall.
Many citizens have lost faith in the activities of their governments.
Governments have lost faith in each other and corporations are losing faith in
governments.  
  
But any mistrust of the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance is
absolutely misplaced in this context, given espionage and surveillance is not
connected to the governance of the Internet; its open architecture
agnostically enables all those seeking access, legitimately or not.  
  
Put another way the governance issues we are discussing today relate to the
all important plumbing of the Internet and should not be confused with the
content or practices that use that plumbing.  
  
This year is a watershed moment for the Internet with world attention focussed
as the debate ramps up at forums around the globe.  
  
Brazil’s global multi stakeholder meeting on the future of governance held
last week resulted in a series of internet governance principles that cover
issues such as observing human rights online, cultural and linguistic
diversity and a roadmap for the future evolution of the internet governance
ecosystem.  
  
Two representatives from my Department have just returned from the NetMundial
meeting in Brazil. I am pleased to report that the statement that came out of
NetMundial – officially titled ‘The Multistakeholder Statement of San Paulo”
provides a fresh statement of policy that places a far more equal emphasis on
the role of all stakeholders in the Internet governance landscape: national
governments, civil society, academia, technical groups and users. The
statement represents a clear and useful line in the sand for advocating the
continued evolution of the multi-stakeholder model: it may see the world’s
conversation about internet governance leave behind the old Manichaean
dualities of government versus non-government stakeholders, or of ICANN versus
ITU. The starting point for a dialogue on internet governance may now be
constellations of different stakeholders, contributing their diverse expertise
and strengths to a greater whole, without needing to usurp, co-opt or diminish
each others’ roles. In this respect, NetMundial represents an important
recognition of the success of a multistakeholder model of Internet governance.  
  
Conclusion  
  
The Australian Government certainly does not have all the answers, and no one
nation possibly could. It will take a genuinely global response to a genuinely
global issue. In among the conflicting visions and agendas I am confident we
will find a way through. Or the way through will find us.  
  
Not one of us could have ever imagined what the internet would become, just as
none of us can envisage where it will go. Its growth has been organic and any
future governance structure needs to honour and build on that.  
  
The Internet has a spirit that must not, and it is to be hoped cannot, be
broken. It must never be controlled, with the power and ownership that is
inherent in that, but it must be governed well. By all and for all.  
  
Forums such as this one today are part of the global dialogue that is
invaluable in supporting ICANN’s transition to a new model of governance under
which the Internet remains free, stable and resilient.  
  
I congratulate and thank Chatham House for the lead it is taking to that end.  
  
[ends].Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (10:28): Neville Wran was
my best friend. I certainly never had a better friend than Neville. I was in
business with him for over a decade and we spent pretty much every working day
together for well over a decade. He always used to say that he knew me before
I knew him because he was a university friend of my mother's. He would
regularly assert that he knew me when I was still en ventre ma mere, a legal
term he was very fond of. I got to know him when we were two adults, although
I was only barely an adult, when I was a young journalist in the press gallery
in New South Wales starting in 1975 when Neville was the opposition leader. He
was clearly the coming man. He had an urbanity, a wit and eloquence that had
no parallel on either side of the house.  
  
  
  
The Labor Party in those days was very different to what it is today. It is a
much more tertiary educated, sophisticated group of people, albeit from a
pretty narrow caste, I suppose—the apparatchik class.  
  
In those days the trade union officials in the parliament were horny-handed
sons of toil—people who had worked with their hands, like Jack Ferguson, who
was Neville's great friend. Neville was this extraordinarily urbane,
beautifully dressed, extremely handsome man. Neville was a great heartthrob at
university, my mother always told me, and he was a very handsome guy—an actor
and I suppose he could have been a movie star if he had turned his mind to it.
So, he was quite remarkable.  
  
Needless to say, it did not take long, despite the family connection, before
we were coming to blows with each other. As the member for Sydney intimated,
Neville had a take no prisoners approach to opponents. He was scathing—though
always funny—in his attacks on his political opponents or opponents in the
press. The Abbott government is accused of being critical of the ABC, but
nobody could have been more scathing of the ABC than Neville Wran. I got to
know him and we got on well, although in a fairly confrontational way
sometimes. Towards the end of his premiership I was chatting to him and I
said, 'What are you going to do—are you going to get out of politics?' He was
quite bored with state politics by that stage. In fact, Neville told me 18
months after he became Premier that he was bored. The tragedy is that he never
came to Canberra. It was one of those dreadful accidents of history and
timing. He had had an operation on his throat—he had lost his voice and that
would have made it difficult. Then Hawke came onto the scene, and the
opportunity was no longer there.  
  
I asked him what he was going to do and he mentioned a very good friend of
his, Peter Valkenburg. He said he thought he might go into business with
Peter. I asked, 'Neville, why would you want to go into business with someone
as old as you?' When I was talking to Neville about this, he was exactly the
same age I am today. I often think to myself that I was 31 years of age and I
thought this bloke was just about knocked up—he was so old. I said to him that
we should do something together. Bruce McWilliam and I had just set up our own
law firm. I was in the middle of the Spycatcher case and we had a good
practice, and I said that maybe there was something we could do together.
Anyway, I told him, 'Don't hang around with people your own age, hang around
with younger people.' That was definitely good advice.  
  
Anyway, time went on and we worked together and then we set up an investment
banking business called Whitlam-Turnbull, with me, Nick Whitlam and Neville.
Neville used to say it was one of those rare occasions when he was the
smallest ego in the room. Nick left us in 1990 but Neville and I continued
right through to 1997, and in fact some time after that, and it was a terrific
partnership. It was very successful financially, but we had so much fun
together. He was the best of men, such a wonderful friend. He was completely
and utterly loyal. I have never known anybody who you could count on more than
Neville Wran. If I had to pull anybody out to stick with me in a tight corner,
Neville was the most solid. Look at the way he stood by Lionel Murphy when
Murphy was going through all of his travails. At one point Neville observed
that he thought Murphy was innocent. To my great surprise, he was charged with
contempt of court. To this day I do not know how you can be in contempt of
court by saying you think somebody is innocent, because everyone is innocent
until they are proven guilty. In any event, Murphy was convicted in a decision
that I must say I thought at the time was clearly wrong in law. It was after
Neville was Premier, and he was fined $5,000 or something like that. I asked
whether he was going to appeal to the High Court, and he said, 'No, no, son;
the Labor Party loves a martyr.' He knew he would win on appeal.  
  
He suffered dreadfully when he was in government because of accusations of
corruption, which were baseless. I say they were baseless because the Liberal
government that succeeded Labor in 1988 set up ICAC. Again, I must say I urged
Nick Greiner not to do that; I had very strong views about star chambers,
having represented Packer in the Costigan royal commission. And anyway, Nick
set that up and it brought him down. But they certainly did not succeed in
even making a coherent allegation against Wran.  
  
Neville was very hurt by all of those allegations, really deeply hurt—that
wounded him. He went through the royal commission over the Kevin Humphries
rugby league allegations, and it hurt him. I can just say this about Wran: I
knew him better. I would say there would be no man outside of his family that
would have known Neville better than I did and, certainly, no-one who would
have known his affairs better than I did. Neville Wran, when he got out of
politics, had a pension and he had a house, and that was it. So all of those
allegations about Wran being corrupt were simply baseless. But it is a rough
business and I guess one cannot overdo the sympathy for him in that regard
because he was a very tough partisan politician himself; he was playing in a
rough game.  
  
We had some amazing adventures together. At one point we were involved in a
gold project in Siberia. We were financing a gold project in Siberia. Neville
came on one trip to Siberia, and at the same time we had another gold project
in Ghana. He took me aside after all these bizarre people we encountered in
Siberia—large men with guns and all this stuff. I thought it was pretty
frightening. He took me aside and said, 'Son, here is the deal: you do Russia,
I will do Africa.' So I commuted to Siberia and Neville commuted to Ghana!  
  
We had some success in both of those emerging markets. But where we had a lot
of success, frankly, was in China, where we worked together. It was something
Neville and I were both very proud of. We got started and set up the first
Sino-Western mining project, which is still extant, but was sold a long time
ago. It was a big zinc mine in Hebei province. It was back more than 20 years
ago, quite an achievement at that time.  
  
He was, as the member for Sydney said, a leading member of the republican
movement. In fact, the Australian Republican Movement was founded following a
lunch between him and Tom Keneally over a bottle of chardonnay. I just wish
they had not said that, because we were always accused of being chardonnay-
swilling elitists as a consequence. But he was a key member of the ARM. He
recognised that for the republican movement to be successful it could not be
seen to be a Labor Party campaign in and of itself. So he was delighted when I
became—in fact he encouraged me to become—the chairman of the ARM because,
obviously, I had a background in the Liberal Party but at that time was not a
member of any political party.  
  
He was just a source of extraordinary wisdom, always, in all of our years in
the republican campaign. I have to say—and this is a matter of public
record—that the ARM was largely funded by Neville and me for years. We were by
far the largest financial supporters of it, and kept that campaign going for a
very long time. Those people among us who have raised money for political
parties know how hard that is; try raising money for something like that,
where there is absolutely no power—it is just a constitutional reform agenda.  
  
Neville has often been described as an enigma. I am not quite sure what people
mean by that. I would say he was just very circumspect about himself. He did
not open his heart generally or widely, but when you got to know him he had a
generosity and intimacy that was quite remarkable. His close friends
recognised that—and obviously Jill and his children were foremost in that
regard. Many of his close friends are no longer with us, Jim McClelland and
Lionel Murphy being two obvious examples. But for so many others, he was
always the barrister. He always had that legal sheen, that legal shell that he
put around himself.  
  
We had an extraordinary time together. I think he was a role model in
politics. The member for Sydney said that he made an enormous contribution to
the Labor Party, winning in 1976 after Whitlam's catastrophic immolation in
1975. What Wran was able to do was restore Labor's reputation for management.
Whatever people may say about Gough Whitlam's government, its passions and its
reforms and so forth, it was a hopeless administration—it was mismanagement on
an appropriately magnificent Whitlam-esque scale.  
  
Wran was an extremely good manager. He ran a very competent government and he
ran surpluses. When he left office the state Treasury was in surplus. Indeed,
when Labor was finally defeated after his successor Unsworth was defeated in
1988, they had money in the bank. So it was a very responsible approach to
government. He was also totally focused on doing things—and this is a big
distinction between him and a number of the Labor governments that succeeded
him. Neville was not a professional politician. He did not go into politics
because he wanted a job. He was not an apparatchik. He had huge reservations
about the way the Labor Party was being taken over by a sort of professional,
apparatchik political class, as many of the Labor people of his generation
have said elsewhere. He saw his job as being to get in and do things whereas
so many of his successors saw the business of politics as simply staying in
government. Wran had none of that. He was an absolute activist, whether it was
on law reform or on building things, and Darling Harbour has obviously been
mentioned. He had a massive commitment to action in government. I think that
is a good example for all of us, whatever our politics might be.  
  
It is very sad to say farewell to Neville Wran, but I have to say his last few
years were very, very tough. As another old friend of mine once observed, old
age is not for sissies, and Neville did it very, very hard. He hated getting
old. He hated getting old even before he became ill. He showed great courage
in those final years. His fortitude in that time is an example to all of us,
although I do not think any of us would want to spend the last few years of
our lives in the way Neville did. There is something rather sad of course when
great men or great women die at such great ages. We wish everyone a long life.
But, of course, Neville Wran ceased to be Premier in 1986, nearly 30 years
ago. He became Premier in 1976, nearly 40 years ago. So, so much of what he
did, so much of what he stood for and so much of the impact that he had is
only remembered. I was reflecting yesterday in the House when the Prime
Minister and the Leader of the Opposition both spoke very well about him that
neither of them really knew him as a contemporary.  
  
Even though we were not contemporaries—he was the same age as my father—I only
got to know him closely by an accident of having worked with him for so long.  
  
Farewell Neville Wran. He made an extraordinary contribution to this country.
He was a great patriot. I am very sorry that we are not a republic, not least
because Neville always said to me that he was worried we would not become a
republic in his lifetime. But who knows, we may be able to fulfil his ambition
at a later date. At the Constitutional Convention in 1998, Wran was part of
the ARM's delegation—one of the elected delegates. Boy, that was a fractious
arena. That made the Senate look like child's play with all the different
agendas and groups, and people running around. Neville's charm and ability to
pull people together was in full force. We would not have got an outcome out
of the Constitutional Convention without him. There would not have been a
republican movement without him. Sydney would not be the great city it is
without him. He was one of the great men of our times, but he was also one of
the best of men and he is sadly missed.  
  
Like the member for Sydney, speaking on my own behalf and on Lucy's, who was
also a very close friend of Neville's, Neville was family, basically, we pass
on our condolences, as we have already, to his children: Kim, his daughter
from his first marriage to Marcia; Glenn Wran, Marcia's son; and, of course,
Harriet and Hugo, his children with Jill, his widow. All of them have
wonderful memories of Neville—we all do.  
  
In closing, I just say this about Neville Wran. It is hard for those of us who
saw him in his last years not to have our minds seared by the sheer sadness of
his predicament. But we really have to put that aside and we have to remember
Neville, as he would want us to remember him—hair full of boot polish, eyes
flashing, eloquent, savage, witty, magnificent in his formidable, forensic
power. That is the Neville Wran we should always remember. He was such a great
man and I miss him terribly.Thank you very much David and thank you for inviting me to participate in the
‘currency of digital economy’ conference.  
  
Introduction  
  
It is fitting to be discussing the digital economy at a conference convened by
the National Archives – one of Australia’s most important historical and
cultural institutions. The archives have been described as the ‘memory of our
nation’ not only collecting and preserving Australian Government records that
reflect our history and identity but, more importantly, putting them into
context – the archives’ collection traces the events and decisions that have
shaped the nation and the lives of all Australians.  
  
For all of human history, we have tried to remember - to preserve human
knowledge, to hold on to our memories, and we have devised numerous means to
do so. We had to go to great efforts to remember in times past, whether it was
painting on a cave wall, memorising ballads, writing things down, painting
pictures, taking photographs... or more formalised institutions, such as
archives and libraries, where memories were carefully stored, catalogued and
analysed.[1] Of course these institutionalized practices of selecting,
classifying, preserving and mediating knowledge has had a profound impact on
the way society remembers and indeed the way it forgets.[2]  
  
The digital revolution - the Internet - means that this default of forgetting
is no longer the case. Now as more and more of our lives are lived or at least
recorded online, in large part at our own initiative, is anything able to be
forgotten? Things can be overlooked certainly, but can they ever be deleted?  
  
These questions are not merely for academics, curators or philosophers. Two
weeks ago the European Court of Justice, the European Union’s highest court,
issued a ruling on the “right to be forgotten,” which grants users of Google
the right to have links about themselves removed from Google’s search results.
The decision applies to nearly anything found on the Internet— legal records,
photos, even lawfully published news stories—and, in the words of the European
Justice Commissioner, Viviane Reding, represents “a clear victory for the
protection of the personal data of Europeans.”[3]  
  
This debate around called ‘right to be forgotten’, has become increasingly
relevant in the post-Snowden world.  
  
It raises a number of important questions:  
  
For all of human history when the default was to forget a lot of important
things we forgotten, many important records were lost. But to the extent
things were remembered one of the criteria that ensured remembering was the
significance of the event or the impact of memory. But are we better off now?
Now that everything is remembered do we run the risk of losing the needle in
the haystack?  
  
For this reason, I am very pleased to see that the National Archives has been
so active in in tackling the challenges of digital preservation, enabling
access to digital, records, memories and information in the future. There are
now almost 25 million digitised pages loaded on the Archives’ database. The
coupling of digital records and search technology can help find the needle in
the haystack.  
  
The idea of overcoming the fallibility of human memory was forecast by HG
Wells when, in the 1930s, he wrote an essay on the "world brain" through which
"the whole human memory can be . . . made accessible to every individual".[4]
I suppose Google would say that they have realised that vision in their own
search engine.  
  
Today, every one of us has access, in our pockets, to a staggering amount of
information that even just 10 years ago, much less 100 years ago, was
unimaginable. The important issue now is how best to unlock, democratise and
share this data.  
  
The data explosion and implications for government  
  
In 2013, the amount of stored information in the world was estimated to be
around 1200 exabytes. This is the equivalent of giving every person living on
Earth today 320 times as much information as is estimated to have been stored
in the Library of Alexandria.[5]  
  
Much of this data is so large and complex – so called big data --that it would
have been impossible to identify meaningful trends within it only a decade or
so ago.  
  
We can now draw new and meaningful insights from this messy, unstructured data
due to the tremendous growth in processing power, and the relative
affordability of storing and transmitting data.  
  
In the last 50 years the cost of digital storage has halved roughly every two
years, storage density has increased 50-million fold and our ability to
process that data has increased exponentially, doubling every eighteen months.  
  
This has led to an explosion in the volume of data available to consumers, to
business and, of course, to government. And this easy-to-access data is mostly
stored in a machine readable form -- a profound difference from techniques
previously used to collect and store information in years past.  
  
For governments, all this data has the capacity profoundly to change the way
policy is formed.  
  
Until recently, governments tended to see the data they collected as a by-
product of what they do instead of as an initiator of what they can do.
Although governments considered data valuable and had a special position in
capturing information they were not particularly effective at using it. Now,
rather than simply record of what we have done, data can and should drive what
we will do. Today, all data is recognised as valuable, in and of itself.  
  
But data is a latent resource. It does not reveal its benefits easily; they
are only discovered through analysis.  
  
The reality is that government is probably not always the best placed to do
the necessary analysis, to understand what it has. This means to extract the
most value from data held by government we need to make it readily available
to the private sector and citizens - to make it truly open. There is no value
to government or to society, to hold onto this information, to store it unused
in a dusty, locked digital cupboard somewhere. It’s the private sector, the
innovators, the questioning citizens who are best placed to unleash and
harness the value locked in the data.  
  
Economic potential of open and accessible data  
  
Apart from the social benefits, what is the economic rationale in making this
data open and accessible? The argument of direct costs versus indirect
benefits is a difficult proposition for governments with shrinking budgets. It
calls for mature cost-benefit analysis that includes factors that relate to
the broader digital economy.  
  
A 2013 report by McKinsey researchers estimates $3 to 5 trillion in economic
value annually from open data across seven sectors in the United States. More
locally, John Houghton from the Centre for Strategic and Economic Studies
found that the net cost to the Australia Bureau of Statistics of making
publications and statistics freely available and adopting creative commons
licensing was about $3.5 million a year – but the benefits to the public, to
government, were even greater. The immediate costs savings to users was around
$5 million per annum and the measurable annualised benefits were around $25
million.  
  
We like to think of sites like Google, Amazon and Facebook as the pioneers of
big data, but of course governments were the original gatherers of information
on a mass scale, and they still rival any private enterprise for the sheer
volume of data they control.  
  
Ironically, despite their special position in capturing information --
governments are the only institution or organisation that can compel people to
provide it – governments are often ineffective at using it. Yes, much of this
information might be personal or confidential (tax returns, health records and
so forth) but, more often than not, it is government's lack of imagination and
absence of incentives to exploit the great value from data that is to blame.  
  
I am pleased to say we are improving rapidly in our openness to data. We have
already seen some fantastic uses of government data to create real time apps.
One of my favourites as a keen catcher of public transport is the NSW
transport app, TripView, which allows the public to track the exact time of
arrival in real time of a bus or train from their nearest stop. This is only
possible thanks to the innovative use of real time government data. And it has
a profound impact. Because, as any transit economist will tell you, the real
challenge for mass transit in terms of broad mass acceptance is being
sufficiently regular that citizen or a passenger can turn up to a bus stop or
a train station an know that a train will turn up or a bus will turn up in a
reasonable time. All the experts, such as Peter Newmann, will tell you that.
This type of application changes that paradigm because it means that you know
precisely when the train or bus is going to be there. It makes mass transit,
at no cost to government, much more attractive.  
  
At the Commonwealth Government level the establishment of data.gov.au and the
publication of the Principles on Open Public Sector Information (PSI) have
been important steps in opening up the data held by government agencies for
re-use.  
  
The current Australian Government's Principles on open public sector
information state that open access should be our default position.  
  
A recent Commonwealth dataset that’s worth mentioning is the 2014 Budget. The
complete Budget information was made available in machine readable form
through data.gov.au for the first time. Another is the Australian Disaster
Events datasets – a CSV file that maps disaster events in Australia by
category, impact and geographic location. The benefits to business, to
government, to innovate using this information, this data, is significant – it
allows a level of analysis that has not previously possible.  
  
I’m absolutely committed to ensuring that the data that we are releasing has
the potential to add value – genuine value that enables companies to deliver
real innovations. For this reason my department is leading a senior working
group to identify datasets of high-value to the economy. We have identified
more than 20 such datasets, covering areas such as geocoded addressing,
finance, energy and infrastructure – and the data will be anonymised, where
necessary to protect privacy.  
  
But we also need to be upfront and recognise that we can do more and, to this
end, we are making good progress. So far, 85 per cent of the data that is
available through data.gov.au has been added since the Coalition was elected
in September. This is the direct result of my department, the Department of
Communications, working with Geoscience Australia and the Finance portfolio to
deliver on our election commitments in our e-Government the Digital Economy.  
  
Longer term, governments' involvement in collecting, storing and maintaining
data will depend on a number of factors, including cost, market capability,
and legal and security issues.  
  
One early example of open datasets that once opened will have both significant
economic and efficiency dividends is the Geocoded National Address File or
G-NAF.  
  
As well as having significant utility within the private sector the file is
also fundamental to government business. It currently incurs significant
licencing and administration costs in addition to the restrictive licencing
hampering government business. It is our goal to foster more collaboration
between the private and public sectors to ensure that datasets such as G-NAF
are available to foster more value added services and efficiencies.  
  
The open data network is one of the key ways that the Departments of
Communications and Finance are delivering on the Commonwealth Open Data
agenda.  
  
An example of how the open data network will provide assistance to the
research and not-for-profit sector is the NationalMap functionality that my
Department, in collaboration with NICTA and Geoscience Australia, will release
at GovHack this year.  
  
Using open source technology within the open data network, like the Cesium
viewer that underpins the NationalMap, allows both the not-for-profit and for-
profit sectors to use and build on open Government data.  
  
The first iterations of this will be the network created by the linkages of
data.gov.au with the FIND geospatial online catalogue, the NationalMap
exploitation tool and two major data infrastructures, the Foundation Spatial
Data Framework and the National Environmental Infrastructure Initiative.  
  
It was this policy of promoting M2M networked infrastructures that delivered
an additional 2300 datasets to data.gov.au in January this year from only one
additional Government agency. My Department is currently taking this test case
to other Departments to replicate that success.  
  
Big Data Opportunities  
  
Of course it is not simply the Government’s job to release the data it
controls – in many instances the Government is well placed to analyse ‘big
data’ and draw value from the data it collects. There are already many big
data projects underway in areas such as the Australian Tax Office; and in
Departments including Immigration, Industry and Defence.  
  
For example, the Department of Immigration and Border control performs big
data analytics on visas and border risks that previously would have been
impossible. In the last three years the Department has processed more than 100
million visa applications and passenger cards, 500 million border crossings,
500 million alert lists and records over one million over-stayers and non-
compliant visa holders.  
  
The Big Data Centre of Excellence within the ATO and the Department of
Finance’s private/public partnership project will also assist in the
prioritisation of big data projects that have the greatest impact for service
delivery agencies.  
  
Government and the cloud  
  
Along with the dramatic improvements in the way data can be collected and
analysed there have been fundamental changes is the way data is stored and
accessed.  
  
No doubt, the benefits of cloud computing are well realised in the room. Cloud
computing is fundamentally changing the way we think about computing. Although
I should note the metaphor of the cloud is not a fortunate one, because it
does create in a lot of people minds the idea of somewhere that is evanescent,
and insecure and vague as opposed to the box in your office or department. And
the reality is the cloud is just a bigger box that is generally better managed
and more secure. But nonetheless it is too late – the cloud is the metaphor.  
  
The Coalition government is doing its bit to get small businesses excited
about the cloud. Last week my department – the department of Communications -
released series of guides designed to help them embrace the trend with
confidence. The guides have been developed on the back of the detailed Cloud
Computing Regulatory Stock Take, which provides an overview of regulation
affecting the Australian cloud market and its impact on take up.  
  
The guides are designed to provide advice on the choice of cloud vendor, legal
issues involved and how Australian Privacy Laws apply to the use of cloud
services.  
  
KPMG has estimated that increased adoption of cloud services in Australian
firms could boost the Australian economy by $3.32 billion a year.  
  
Transforming service delivery  
  
Government is also using data to run agencies more efficiently and improve
citizens’ online experience of government services. Based the on data
collected from all government agencies about how citizens interact with
government departments online the Coalition is transforming the way we use ICT
to deliver services to the public – and we are making good progress.  
  
By the end of 2017 all major services and interactions will be available to
the public online, making government more accessible, more efficient – that is
the cornerstone of our convenient services policy, which closely follows the
work of the UK Government’s Digital Services division - GDS. I have recently
returned from a trip to the UK where I spent a lot of time working with our
counterparts, the Minister for the Cabinet Office, Francis Maude, and heads of
GDS Liam Maxwell and Mike Bracken, who are producing inspiring changes and
massive savings in the delivery of government digital services. Literally
saving billions of pounds and making every aspect of government much more
engaging more compelling and providing much more interaction with citizens. A
real win-win. Mr Maxwell will be travelling to Australia soon to advise me and
my government colleagues on how we can enact similar changes in service
delivery across all government agencies.  
  
In the UK the GDS has calculated that online transactions are 20 times cheaper
than transactions over the phone, 30 times cheaper than postal transactions,
and a staggering 50 times cheaper than face-to-face transactions.[6] This is
significant when you consider the situation in Australia – Last year there
were about 156 million face-to-face interactions, 63 million phone
interactions and nearly 220 million paper interactions, many of which were
sent through the post.  
  
But it’s important to recognise that designating the internet as the default
customer service channel is much more than a cost-saving exercise. That is
what our e-Government Policy is all about – it recognises that more than 80
per cent of Australians expect to be able to interact with government, to
complete transactions, online.[7] It is important that a digital interaction
with government is digital end-to-end.  
  
And like the recent National Commission of Audit, it recognises that the
internet is the best way for both government to deliver services to the public
and for the public to engage with government.  
  
I am absolutely committed to this agenda and will making more announcements in
the future.  
  
Conclusion  
  
As data transforms our lives – optimising, creating efficiencies, informing
policy making and creating value – we are presented with just as many
questions as the powerful number-crunching of data solves.  
  
What is the value of traditional institutions, such as this one – the National
Archives - whose role was to collect and analyse both physical and digital
data?  
  
What data should governments and corporations be permitted to collect and,
once they have it, what should they be allowed to use it for?  
  
Even if the data suggests a certain policy outcome is the most efficient and
cost-effective - will it necessarily be the right one?  
  
How are attitudes to privacy changing? In my own view – and I have to say this
is ‘anec-data’ – the digital natives, generation Y and below, have a very
different attitude to privacy than we do. A generation that is habituated with
putting so much of their lives on Facebook and other platforms does have a
very different attitude.  
  
In reality data is not an ice-cold world of algorithms and automatons. There
is an essential role for people, with all the limitations, inaccuracies,
subjectivity and humanity that come with being human.[8] With the help of
institutions such as the National archives and Australia’s great museums and
libraries and some of the world’s best data scientists we have a great
opportunity. It is now the responsibly of us all, government, industry and the
community more broadly to unleash the latent power of today’s modern
information for a common social and economic good.  
  
  
  
[1] Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital
Age (Princeton University Press 2011).  
  
[2] Attila Marton ‘Forgotten as Data – Remembering through the Information –
Social Memory Institutions in the Digital Age’, 2011, 13.  
  
[3] Jonathan Blitzer, ‘Google Search Results: Dictator Not Found’, New Yorker,
21 May 2014.  
  
[4] H.G. Wells, ‘World Brain: The Idea of a Permanent World Encyclopedia’,
World Brain (1937).  
  
[5] Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, Big Data (John Murray 2013), 9.  
  
[6] UK Government’s Digital Efficiency Report (Government Digital Services).  
  
[7] ACMA’s Communications Report (2012-13).  
  
[8] Viktor Mayer-Schönberger, Delete: The Virtue of Forgetting in the Digital
Age (Princeton University Press 2011).Thank you Bajo and Hex [Steven “Bajo” O’Donnell and Stephanie “Hex” Bendixsen
who introduced you]  
  
And to the partners of the Stay Smart Online initiative for their longstanding
support of this important initiative, and the members of the Stay Smart Online
steering group.  
  
Stay Smart Online Week is a great collaborative project between Government,
business and online platforms. It is important to recognise that we all have a
vested stake in making sure that people’s personal information is being
protected online – and that they feel as though this is the case.  
  
A 2012 study by the Australian Bureau of Statistics found that over 1.2
million Australians – that’s 6.7% of the population aged 15 years and over –
had been a victim of personal fraud in a period of 12 months, losing
approximately $1.4 billion.  
  
Later today my colleague , Paul Fletcher, will be launching Intel Security’s
“Safeguarding The Future of Digital Australia in 2025”. Worryingly, the report
found that only a third (32 per cent) of Australians feel safe and secure in
an increasingly digital world.  
  
So clearly there is more work to do in protecting people’s online identities
and personal information. But it is also important to note that this really
starts with education and awareness – and this is what this week is really all
about. I haveoften noted that the biggest threat to online security is often
not vulnerabilities in the hardware or the software used; it is the warmware –
us – the vulnerabilities and shortcomings of the people using technology
online.  
  
The most common entry vector of malware into computer networks is from people
opening attachments from emails that appear to be genuine – always check
carefully that an attachment is from a trusted source.  
  
Around 1700 organisations are involved this year, reflecting an increasing
understanding of the implications of online safety and security and the role
we can, and must, all play in addressing the issues at hand.  
  
By government, industry and the community coming together like this we are
developing what I hope will soon become an entrenched culture of awareness
that will help protect all Australians as they increasingly move their lives
online.  
  
It is becoming increasingly anachronistic to refer to the so-called ‘digital
economy’. Rather, it is the economy, just with more tools to access
transactions than before. It’s not uncommon for people to walk into a retail
fashion store today, try on some clothes and then scan the barcode to see if
they can get a better deal somewhere else whether it is online or at another
bricks and mortar store.  
  
Stay Smart Online 2014: Focus on Mobility  
  
That’s why this year’s theme of ‘On the Go’ is so important. The internet is
all-pervasive; we’re online wherever we are now. It’s so seamless, so simple,
so everywhere it’s easy to forget that quickly transferring some funds or
posting something to Facebook on your phone or tablet is actually being
online.  
  
The take-up of smart phones and tablets has been one of the most rapid of any
technology, ever. Google research found that smartphone penetration in
Australia increased from 37 per cent to 65 per cent in the two years to 2013 .
As I recently noted while on the morning ferry into the city, it seems as
though everyone on board was swiping and scrolling on their smartphone – but
as many people pointed out, I happened to tweet this observation, meaning I
was guilty of the same crime.  
  
That little smartphone, never out of our own, or our children’s’, hand poses
the same security and safety risks as the internet at home or in the office.
Indeed, it poses even greater risk in some ways because it is always with us,
and we are often less focussed, more distracted when we are using it. It is
the same with our tablets. We are usually on the go, or multi-tasking when we
log on, which makes it easy to be forgetful or careless. Stay Smart Online is
promoting tips across seven themes this year:  
  
• Securing your mobile device • Securing your desktop or laptop computer •
Protecting your online accounts • Safely connecting and sharing • Protecting
your child • Buying online • Selling online  
  
They are all tips that need to become second nature like other basic safety
measures we take without thinking, like locking the front door or never
leaving a wallet on a café table.  
  
As a first step, we encourage Australians to subscribe to the Government's
free Stay Smart Online Alert Service, to learn about online scams, data
breaches, viruses and other issues and how to address them.  
  
The Cyber Security Challenge  
  
Obviously user behaviour can’t mitigate all the risks we face; we will also
always need cyber security professionals, just as we need security
professionals in our everyday lives.  
  
That’s what the Cyber Security Challenge Australia is all about: identifying
talented Australian students and inspiring them to become cyber security
professionals.  
  
The 2014 Challenge Australia has been a collaboration across portfolio
agencies under the Prime Minister, the Minister for Defence, the Attorney-
General and myself.  
  
These Australian Government agencies partnered with Telstra to host the Cyber
Security Challenge and were supported this year by NBN Co. and
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC).  
  
This year’s Challenge was the largest in its three-year history, with more
than 200 students in 55 teams from 22 higher education institutions competing
in a simulated hacking game, which took place in a controlled virtual
environment over 24 hours.  
  
I want to thank Telstra for providing the competition’s infrastructure and
prizes. For the winning team, the prize includes the chance to go to the Black
Hat Conference 2014 in Las Vegas USA – the world’s premier information
security forum.  
  
I also want to thank NBN Co. for providing additional infrastructure and PwC
for its administrative support.  
  
In addition to the competition’s corporate sponsors, thank you to the
Department of the Prime Minister and Cabinet for organising the Challenge and
the hardworking team from the Australian Signals Directorate’s Cyber Security
Branch who built, tested and ran the technical side of the Challenge this
year.  
  
Mostly, I want to thank the extremely talented students who took part: this
nation’s future, whichever career you all eventually go on to choose, is
clearly in excellent hands.  
  
I am very happy to announce that the winning team is from the University of
NSW. Again. UNSW has now won all three Challenges.  
  
This year’s team is: John Cramb, Evgeny Martynov, Oliver Chang and Ben Faull.  
  
Second and third place also go to UNSW.  
  
In just a moment I will be joined by Kate McKenzie, from Telstra, to present
the prize.  
  
Now it is with pleasure and pride that I launch Stay Smart Online Week 2014
and welcome the Canberra Girls’ Grammar School choir to sing the Stay Smart
Online Song.  
  
Stay Smart Online is a truly collaborative initiative that helps to instil
skills and confidence that keep us all safe and lets us reap the many, many
rewards the internet has to offer while avoiding its pitfalls.I'm really delighted to be here with Kelly to launch the One Million Donors
Program. I'd encourage, since we're in Canberra, government departments to
embrace workplace giving, for everybody to embrace workplace giving, and to
introduce their own programs to that effect. And well done JB Hi-Fi in that
regard.  
  
As a Government, we are very keen to support individuals to participate in,
and to commit to, charitable giving. As Kelly noted, Lucy and I have supported
the Australian Charities Fund for some time and we are passionate believers in
the power of philanthropy.  
  
A good question is, Why should we support charities, schools, libraries,
hospitals, galleries and research projects? This altruistic impulse is often
described as giving back. But, that seems a little bit inadequate to me. After
all, it's not like giving a book back to a friend from whom you've borrowed –
although in my experience, most people don't give books back. So, that's a
kind of involuntary philanthropy.  
  
But the whole point of philanthropy is that it is not reciprocal. It is the
voluntary surrender of something that is yours, purely for the benefit of
others. And it is a critically important part of our social integrity, of our
social cohesion. It's a very conservative - and I don't use that in a
political sense - it is a very conservative instinct because it seeks to
conserve the strength of our society. And Edmund Burke, the great 18th Century
conservative writer saw this very clearly when he wrote of society as being a
partnership between those of the living, those that are dead, and those that
are yet to be born - seeing that chain of continuity, that human continuity.
And this is where philanthropy is very important. Now, a lot of people will
say to you well, don't we have a tax system to do this? Don't we have
governments to do that? And there's no doubt governments have the deepest
pockets because they, by force of law, can reach into your pockets. So there's
no question about the scale. But there is a fundamental difference: a dollar
from a private donor, whether it's a corporation or an individual, is of a
quite different quality, even if of the same quantity, as a dollar from
government. Because a dollar given by an individual is wrapped in love. It is
a personal commitment. It is not a bureaucratic grant, it is something that
somebody has made out of an instinct, the most basic, most important human
instinct of all: That of love. And, of course, from the point of view of a
charity, hospital or a school, getting philanthropic support is so valuable
not just because of the money, but because what it does is it builds up a
community of advocates. Every single person who you raise money from as a
charity will become your spokesman, your advocate, your ambassador. And that
makes you stronger, it makes you better connected into the community. And, you
know there are so many good examples, and so many examples that all of us have
been involved with over the years where you can see that that is true. I think
that there are big cultural differences. Not all cultures in all countries are
as philanthropic as others. I'll give you a theory -- I'll give you Turnbull's
utterly non-peer reviewed theory on philanthropy and the cultural differences
thereof, because I've observed it over the years. A lot of people would say,
why are Americans perceived as being more philanthropic, more generous if you
like, than Australians? Well that is changing. Bob Hughes, if he were alive,
here with us today, would say well it's very simple Australia was founded as a
jail, and America was founded as a religious experiment. But while droll, like
most of Bob's observations, I don't know that that's the answer. In our
country, which was founded as a government venture, if you like, historically
the vast bulk of the money that has gone to support all of our social
institutions has come from one of three top-down, hierarchical institutions:
The government, the Catholic Church, and the Anglican Church. That has been
the bulk of it. Whereas in the United States, and you see this very well in
Alexis de Tocqueville's 1840s work Democracy in America, very different sort
of social organisation: Very grass roots, bottom up. And there is a tradition
if you wanted to do something, then you had to - whether it was building a
barn, or a school, or whatever - you had to get your neighbours to contribute.
And that is that that's part of a very different culture. That's why, I
believe, the American's are different. And if you want to see a local example
of that, think of the extraordinary philanthropy of the Jewish community. If
you took the Jews out of philanthropy in Australia it would leave a huge hole.
Why are the Jews so generous? My theory is it’s because there is no top-down
hierarchical body. There is no Jewish pope or Jewish organisation that, with
great assets, can make things happen. And so the Jewish community again has
had that sort of grass roots approach, which inculcates a tradition of
philanthropy. It's really important for us to develop that. I'll give you
another example before I sit down of changing attitudes. I was a Rhodes
Scholar – a dime a dozen now in this Parliament, there's at least three of us
and most people think it's got something to do with the infrastructure Budget
nowadays – but anyway, I was a Rhodes Scholar, and the Rhodes Scholarships
were set up by Cecil Rhodes over a century ago. It was a massive bequest, and
there it was. Throughout all of its history the Rhodes Scholarships which were
run in the UK by a very British sort of committee, they had never asked one of
their scholars for a cent. Never ever. So, totally un-American. And then in
the GFC they lost a third of the endowment. Whoops, that was a bit careless!
And for the first time in their history they're actually starting to ask the
Rhodes Scholars to support them, and they're getting a lot of support. And
it's been a really terrific that all the Rhodes Scholars in this building have
made contributions. And it is an interesting example of that very British, and
I think Australian attitude, that you don't actually ask people for support.
But it's changing. Now, this campaign, the Australian Charities Fund, the One
Million Donors launch, is so important. It doesn't matter how much people
give. It's handy to get money in big licks if you're raising it, but small
donations matter. I've just had an experience of this just literally happening
live on the internet now. I'll be in the CEO Sleepout for St Vincents, I do
that every year, so you can donate online to the CEO of your choice. I posted
on Twitter, sent it out to my email list, and I'm pleased to say, the
donations are coming in. Not that I'm competitive or anything like that, but
nonetheless it's competition and a good cause. I’m so pleased to be here. I
congratulate you Kelly and the Australian Charities Fund on your work, and I
wish you every success. Because what you're really doing here, what you're
really doing, is giving love practical form. And that is so important. Thanks
very much.CEDA National Annual Conference – State of the Nation ‘Australia Post in the
Digital Age’ Canberra, 24 June 2014  
  
## Check Against Delivery ##  
  
Good morning and thank you for the opportunity to take part in CEDA’s 35th
State of the Nation dialogue.  
  
The Committee for the Economic Development of Australia (CEDA) was established
more than half a century ago as an apolitical forum focused on major policy
questions facing the nation. Over the years it has participated in several of
our most contentious debates over changes that challenged prevailing economic
or social orthodoxies. So it isn’t news to anyone at CEDA that structural
economic reform is profoundly politically challenging.  
  
Economic reform is always challenging, it disturbs the established order and
while there should always be many more winners (rarely vocal in their
appreciation) than losers (invariably highly vocal in their dissatisfaction),
there are always losers.  
  
Of course when we think of the forces disrupting the globe at present – the
spread of ever more powerful digital technologies into every aspect of our
lives, and the return of Asia to the centre of the world economy – the limits
to the power of Governments to stand in the way of change becomes clear.  
  
That doesn’t mean they won’t come under pressure to try. Business owners and
employees alike can rage against the Internet or the rise of China as they see
their incomes eroded, but there is nothing they can do about it – other than
compete, faster and smarter, or demand a bail out from Canberra.  
  
It’s hard enough for Governments to resist those pressures. When difficult
circumstances for firms or their workers arise from the conscious policy
choices of a Government pursuing structural reform, those pressures are even
greater. The losers can lobby their elected representatives, they can gee up
the media to rally public opinion, they can campaign against the reform, and
they can vote out the reformers.  
  
So while Governments can be an important agent of change and economic progress
– and in Australia were emphatically that under most Prime Ministers over the
past thirty years – democratic accountability and the propensity of some
politicians to cave in under pressure make it a fragile and inconsistent one.  
  
So it is always critical that when we contemplate significant economic or
social changes, we carefully and methodically prepare the ground for it.  
  
● That means explaining the problem to the electorate. The first step in any
reform process must be to repeatedly explain the facts and tell the truth
about the situation. ● It means providing authoritative third party
verification of the problem – as Gary Banks has pointed out, an independent
Productivity Commission dedicated to evidence-based policy was a powerful tool
helping Governments during the reform era. ● It means making the case,
persuasively and repeatedly, for what needs to be done. ● And it means
pursuing consistent, coherent reforms – treating varying interests
equivalently encourages a sense of fairness, while successful reforms tend to
build on each other.  
  
Put another way, nobody will accept the bitter pill unless they are convinced
they are ill. You cannot sell a solution until you have established there is a
problem.  
  
So the first step in the reform process must be to tell the truth about the
current state of affairs and then make the case for what needs to be done.  
  
In my own portfolio two government business enterprises provide classic case
studies for the reform process.  
  
The NBN and Australia Post  
  
Both NBN Co (of which I have spoken elsewhere and at length) and Australia
Post, which I will discuss at length today, face very serious challenges and
in each case their capacity to respond is constrained by Government.  
  
So immediately after the election, having appointed a substantially new board
for NBN Co composed of people with relevant industry experience I asked the
Directors to conduct a strategic review of the project which would tell the
truth about the current status of the project, its business as usual
trajectory and what our options were to complete it sooner, cheaper and more
affordably for consumers.  
  
The Strategic Review told a sorry tale of mismanagement, missed targets, blown
budgets and a likely completion cost of $32 billion more than Labor had
forecast. The best of the alternatives was the “Multi technology” strategy
which simply meant focussing on the customers, delivering them the service
levels they need and will value and using the most cost effective technology
to do so in any particular area.  
  
Since then we have ensured that the NBN Co continues to be thoroughly open.
Rollout and connection figures are no longer released on a Minister’s whim to
suit political convenience but posted on the NBN Co website every week. The
NBN Co reports quarterly as though it were a listed company and holds a full
results presentation every six months with industry analysts and journalists
invited to quiz the senior executives. This in addition to frequent
appearances before Senate Committees.  
  
But the important thing is that while our changes at NBN Co have not been
without controversy, Australians understand the nature of the mess we
inherited, why we have made the change in strategy, and how the business is
responding.  
  
Australia Post - the case for reform  
  
Unlike the NBN Co whose problems are the consequence of poor policy and
management decisions by Government, Australia Post is facing up to a
technology tsunami which threatens its fundamental business model.  
  
But unlike its private sector competitors, Australia Post’s ability to respond
to digital disruption - to digital substitution - is limited under regulations
that compel the company to provide a five day a week delivery service to 98
per cent of all homes and businesses.  
  
Australia Post is one of our oldest businesses, indeed it is the oldest
Commonwealth Government owned business with roots that go all the way back to
the colonies and Cobb & Co.  
  
Today the Government is releasing an important study by the Boston Consulting
Group (BCG) into Australia Post’s regulated letters business, its future
prospects and how it compares to its international counterparts.  
  
Australia Post had revenues of more than $5.8 billion in FY2012-13, employs
more than 32,000 Australians and has returned a dividend to government every
year since corporatisation in 1989. In the last five financial years alone,
Australia Post has paid nearly $966 million in dividends to Government and has
not missed a dividend since it was corporatised.  
  
A nice, rather big, earner.  
  
But those halcyon days are quickly coming to an end.  
  
And the reason is very clear.  
  
It’s the internet. Australia Post is a high fixed cost business and year after
year letter volumes have been declining. Over 80 cents of every dollar lost in
letter revenues goes straight to the bottom line.  
  
Big changes are needed. Without them there is only the prospect of a sea of
red ink and ultimately ruin.  
  
So the most important first step, here as with the NBN, is to tell the truth.
And since I became the Minister I have asked the management of Australia Post
to be more transparent and open about the challenges to their business, and
you have seen Mr Fahour doing just that in recent months.  
  
Once again, if you want to persuade people that the price of stamps must
increase or the frequencies of letter deliveries change, then you have first
to show them why that change is needed.  
  
Tell the truth, disclose the problem, present the solution.  
  
In 2009/10 a typical household spent between $8 and $19 a year sending letters
– much, much less than on phones ($1,750), TVs ($670), computers ($384) and
the Internet ($404).  
  
Between 2008 and 2013, letter volumes in Australia declined at an average of
5.3 per cent per annum – or put another way, about one billion fewer letters
have been sent over the past five years. It’s important to recognise that the
Australian experience is not a unique one – letter volumes have declined at a
similar rate in comparable OECD countries. In New Zealand, letters volumes
have declined by 5.8 per cent between 2008 and 2012, with average declines of
7.4 per cent in the United Kingdom over a similar period (2007-2012).  
  
And while this has resulted in letters losses totalling hundreds of millions
of dollars – more than $710 million alone in the regulated letters business in
the last four financial years – until now, profits from Australia Post’s
parcels business have offset or subsidised losses in the regulated letters
business.  
  
This means that despite extreme structural pressure, Australia Post has
continued to deliver strong commercial returns to successive governments.  
  
Those happy days are over. The profits of parcels are not big enough to offset
the growing losses in letters.  
  
In a business as usual case BCG forecasts that Australia Post will return no
future dividends to government and will deliver a total enterprise loss – the
first since the company was corporatised in 1989 – as early as next financial
year. BCG predicts that letter volumes will decline by an average of 8-11 per
cent per annum to FY2019-20, with no floor in the rate of decline – meaning
that volumes will continue to decline until there are few letters passing
through the network.  
  
Why are letter volume declines accelerating?  
  
Digital disruption is the most significant factor to explain the rate of
letter decline but other important factors are at play.  
  
Businesses are increasingly turning to digital alternatives both to save money
and improve the quality and convenience of their engagement with customers.
The banking sector is an obvious example. And even those businesses that have
a regulatory requirement to physically send a financial statement are doing so
less frequently, with many cutting back from hard copy statements sent monthly
to the end of the financial year only.  
  
This is significant because business and government account for over 90 per
cent of total letter volumes, meaning that the more business and government
turn to digital channels, the more the rate of letter decline will accelerate.  
  
And our own e-government policy sets a goal of making all engagement with the
Federal Government capable of being conducted online by 2017!  
  
High fixed costs and declining letter volumes  
  
As I noted, about 80 per cent of the costs of Australia Post’s letters
business are fixed. The postie has to go up and down your street every day
whether his bag of letters is full or nearly empty. And because the company
has a regulatory obligation to provide five day a week letter delivery to 98
per cent of homes and businesses, letter sorters must work through the night
to ensure uniform delivery times are met for all letters, regardless of their
urgency or importance. So there aren’t a lot of easy cost savings measures
available.  
  
And at the same time as the post bag is emptying there are about 150,000 new
premises being added to the delivery network each year, meaning the cost to
service homes and businesses continues to increase despite a rapid decline in
letter volumes.  
  
Losses  
  
Without reform, letter losses will soon overwhelm parcel profits, with overall
losses for Australia Post as early as FY2014-15. BCG estimates that there will
be total cumulative deficits of $12.1 billion for the letters business and
$6.6 billion for the company over 10 years from FY2013-14 to FY2022-23. At an
enterprise level, the impact of declining letter volumes has, until now, been
offset by business improvement initiatives centred on efficiency, such as
improved sorting and processing automation, as well as profit growth in
parcels and retail, ensuring the company’s short term viability.  
  
But it’s worth noting that the parcels and retail businesses are also facing
challenges.  
  
Not only is growth in the e-commerce market slowing - year on year growth last
year was 14 per cent, down from 26 per cent in 2012 - the parcels market is
also becoming increasingly competitive, with new entrants eating into Post’s
market share. Australia Post’s parcels business will grow by about 1.5 per
cent this financial year, down from about 9 per cent in FY2012-13.  
  
Digital substitution is having a similar impact on the retail business – that
while profitable, foot traffic into retail premises is falling because more
and more of the services on offer can be accessed more conveniently online.  
  
Service levels  
  
BCG believes service levels under the current model of letter delivery exceed
the demand of most customers, with survey data suggesting that two thirds of
people rely on their mail only one or two days per week.  
  
Even though the overwhelming majority of mail is sent by business and
government - more than 90 per cent - service requirements are determined by
the needs of receivers, how they use, and how much they value postal services.  
  
BCG believes that service levels under the current model of letter delivery
exceed the demands of most customers.  
  
BCG’s analysis of the results of a 2014 survey of 8000 customers conducted by
Australia Post showed approximately half of survey respondents were willing to
accept a move to three day a week letter delivery.  
  
But the results are more interesting once the true costs of service levels are
made transparent to end-users. There is a corollary here with broadband - it
is one thing to promise gigabit line speeds but experience shows few customers
are prepared to pay any significant premium for those speeds. Among the
respondents to the Australia Post survey, an average of five per cent said
they would be willing to pay $25 a year to retain current standards.  
  
What’s more, it’s the age groups most likely to reject the idea of three day
delivery who are the least likely to willingly pay a premium for the service.
Of those aged above 60 years, 37 per cent said they would oppose three day
delivery but only five per cent said they would pay the $25 a year premium.  
  
What is to be done?  
  
The conventional response for businesses faced with existential challenges of
this kind has all too often been a form of Micawberism - muddling through and
hoping something turns up. Sometimes this includes the added folly of refusing
to participate in the cannibalisation of your own legacy business, meaning of
course that other people do it!  
  
To its credit Australia Post has established a digital mailbox business. They
recognise that it will never have the scale in revenues or traffic, let alone
profitability of the monopoly letters business of old, but at least they are
trying to be part of the solution. Instead of getting washed away by the new
wave they are trying to catch it.  
  
It’s clear from the work that Australia Post and BCG has done, and from the
experience of postal operators around the world, that a key to reform is to
ensure the stamp price reflects the actual cost of delivery - something that
is not currently the case in Australia. Another is to introduce a two-speed
letters service - a priority service delivered on five days a week and a
regular service delivered on three.  
  
Australia Post’s retail network consists of 4400 outlets, mostly shops, of
which 2500 are licensed post offices. 1500 of those LPOs are in rural and
regional areas. They have been doing it tough as letter volumes and traffic
through the post offices decline as people not only send fewer letters but pay
their bills online.  
  
Australia Post has responded to this by increasing the annual payments to LPOs
and of course increases in the basic postage rate are also helpful. But if we
want to keep post offices open, and we do wherever possible , then Australia
Post needs to replace declining products and services - such as basic payments
- with new ones like more trusted services such as licences and potentially
representing Centrelink and Medicare and other government agencies. 24/7
parcel lockers and Saturday trading, parcel and Express Post delivery also
support the viability of Australia Post’s retail network.  
  
Some people have suggested that the answer is privatisation. There is plenty
of precedent for this in other countries, but if the profitable parcels
business were to be spun off who is left to pick up the tab for the retail
network and the declining letters business? Getting a privatisation cheque in
one hand and a continuing and growing claim on government subsidies in the
other is not very appealing.  
  
The first thing to do is ensure that there is transformation of Australia Post
to ensure the company’s survival in an increasingly digital world. That will
take some time. That is why we have made it clear we are not contemplating any
privatisation of Australia Post.  
  
Another option, of course, is just to leave things as they are and subsidise
the growing losses. Every dollar taken away from a profitable business and
given to an unprofitable business is a bad use of taxpayer’s money. While it
may involve holding on to some jobs in incumbent sectors in the short term,
the cost of retaining those jobs will increase in the long term - and by
overtaxing growth sectors, people don’t think about the jobs that weren’t
created. That is not an option, at least not for this Government.  
  
Conclusion  
  
Reforming Australia Post is not an easy job. Without regulatory change we are
placing the company’s viability and long term sustainability at risk.  
  
Reform of this kind requires political and public consensus.  
  
On the political side, I am pleased that there has been, so far, bipartisan
agreement on the urgent need to reform the regulated letters business.  
  
At the heart of the reform process is explaining to Australians why reform is
needed and how it will ensure the company’s long term sustainability - that
without reform, we are jeopardising the future of Australia Post.  
  
It is important to explain the hard facts - clearly and in a manner that
supports informed debate.  
  
The regulated letters business is losing hundreds of millions of dollars each
year. That Australians are sending fewer letters today than they did five or
10 years ago is hardly a revelation.  
  
And while the parcels business will continue to grow - albeit more slowly than
it has in recent years - the rate of letters decline is now so large that it
will overwhelm all profitable areas of the company as soon as next financial
year.  
  
As we have done with the NBN, we will tell the public the truth about
Australia Post, the challenges it faces and the changes that will enable it to
survive and prosper.Speech to launch China Update 2014 Conference at the ANU 11 July 2014  
  
\------------------------------------  
  
Thank you very much Professor Garnaut for inviting me to open the China Update
2014 Conference here in the China in the World Centre at the ANU with the
theme “Deepening Reform for China’s Long Term Growth and Development”.  
  
  
  
Nearly twenty years ago, on August 4 1994, I established with the Zhangjiakou
City Government and the Hebei Province Geological Bureau a contractual joint
venture, Hebei HuaAo Mining Industry Company Ltd, to explore and develop a
promising lead zinc deposit at Caijiaying near the town of Zhangbei in Hebei
Province. It was the first sino-western joint mining venture in China.  
  
Those were exhilarating days. China had opened to the world under the
leadership of Deng Xiao Ping - whose famous ‘southern tour’ two years before
had signalled there was no turning back from his embrace of the market - but
it was also early days. Zhangjiakou had no smart hotels, no shopping malls, no
hint of the prosperity that was to come.  
  
Hebei HuaAo Mining reports In 2013 that mine produced 788,000 tonnes of ore
mined and milled, 40,752 tonnes of zinc in concentrate and 1551 tonnes of lead
in concentrate - generating sales revenue of 461 million RMB and paying tax of
107 million RMB. The mine has paid 449 million RMB of tax in the last four
years and employs 700 local people.  
  
Although it is a long time since I was a shareholder, I am very proud that we
were able to establish that mine - not simply because it was the first of its
type, but because it has contributed to the growth and prosperity of China,
bringing together Australian and Chinese expertise in every relevant field.
One of my colleagues at the time, geologist Dr Zhou Bo, is I am very pleased
to say still actively involved as a director of the project.  
  
Last night you launched another fine collection of essays with the same title
as the conference and I am sorry I could not join you, but the apparently
simple business of getting from Wellington to Canberra proved more time
consuming and challenging than I had hoped.  
  
I am glad my son Alex was there nonetheless to represent the Turnbull jia.I
like to think that stories of my business adventures in China inspired him to
study Chinese which in due course led him to his beautiful wife Wang Yi Wen.  
  
There is enormous interest in China, its people, its progress and its economy
in Australia. But there is also great affection, and modern Australia could
not be imagined without the contribution of the large and growing community of
Australians of Chinese descent, who the Commonwealth Statistician tells us
numbered more than 866,000 at the 2011 census.  
  
There is much, much more to the relationship between our two countries than
economics: China - its people, its culture and its history - is part of
Australia. One of the great strengths of our multicultural society is that all
of us, regardless of our own particular racial or cultural background, share
in and are enriched by the cultures of our fellow countrymen and women.  
  
China is exceptional - unique - in so many ways. But perhaps no more so than
in both the pace and scale at which it has taken hundreds of millions of
people from poverty to the middle class.  
  
No country, large or small, has quadrupled its per capita income from $2000 to
$8000 in so short a time as the 16 years it took China, from 1995 to 2011.
Australians needed 107 years to do that! Although to be fair that was a very
long time ago.  
  
In the modern era Japan took 17 years, South Korea and Taiwan 20. But no
nation, ever, has made this transition so quickly, nor on such a scale.1  
  
There are many controversies in China economics, but everybody agrees there
are deep structural imbalances in the Chinese economy - the most visible
manifestation of which has been the low and until recently declining share of
consumption in GDP.  
  
Chinese citizens and, even more so, businesses have been saving more and
investing more. There are many reasons for this. The constant inflow of labour
from the countryside suppressed wages growth for a long time, and while
household incomes grew, business incomes and the rest of the economy grew even
faster.  
  
The paper contributed by Xiaolu Wang and Yixiao Zhou points to the way in
which growing income inequality, the source of many other social and political
problems, has also exacerbated the saving problem. Households on higher
incomes save a greater share of that income, and so as more of the income pie
found its way to the rich overall household consumption declined.2  
  
In their discussion of whether China can escape the middle income trap,
Yingjie Feng and Yang Yao observe that one of the salient characteristics of
economies that avoid it, such as Korea and Japan, is a fairly equal income
distribution, much more equal than is the case in China today.3  
  
But probably the biggest cause of this imbalance has been the consistent
policy of financial repression - particularly the limitations that Chinese
households, which had powerful social and cultural incentives to save, had on
where could safely invest.  
  
For lack of a better offer they entrusted their savings to state-controlled
banks which returned negative real interest rates, and proceeded to on-loan
those deposits to state-owned enterprises, often engaged in property
development, at negligible real interest rates - an average of 2.9 per cent
over the past decade according to Owen Freestone and Dougal Horton4 but
arguably significantly lower if you agree with Harry Wu’s contention that the
GDP deflator has been materially underestimated5  
  
This constituted a significant transfer of wealth from thrifty households to
all too often inefficient state owned businesses. . Michael Pettis has
estimated its magnitude at as much as 5 to 8 per cent of GDP annually.6 Just
as cheap and abundant labour encourages firms to engage in labour-intensive
production, so the availability of what in real terms was ‘free’ money
exaggerated incentives to invest. If funds can be borrowed from friendly bank
managers at rates well below the nominal growth in GDP, almost any project
passes muster.  
  
All of the human frailties, vanity, optimism bias, expense and privilege
preferencing not to speak of corruption, make prudent investment, especially
by governments, in any environment difficult; but if you combine all of that
with free money then you have a recipe for widespread mal-investment.  
  
Pettis observes:  
  
“Because low-risk investments return 20% on average in a country with 20%
nominal GDP growth, financial repression means that the benefits of growth are
unfairly distributed between savers (who get just the deposit rate, say 3%)
banks who get the spread between the lending and the deposit rate (say 3.5%)
and the borrower who gets everything else, (13.5% in this case assuming he
takes little risk - even more if he takes risk)”  
  
Let me observe in passing that in a market economy like Australia the closest
parallel to “free money” mal-investment we see is when Governments decide on
behalf of taxpayers to finance grandiose thought-bubble infrastructure, and
then explain away the negligible or negative returns, mismanagement, budget
and schedule blowouts by recategorising their multi billion dollar blunders as
heroic “nation-building,” a phrase I’ve always interpreted as a warning to
citizens to hang on tight to their wallets.  
  
The good news however is that after many years of the Chinese Government
declaring it would do something about this financial repression, change is
finally afoot. The official lending rate has risen to 7.5% and just as
importantly nominal GDP growth has dropped to under 8% in the first quarter of
this year.  
  
China may face less growth, but with higher real interest rates the growth
that does continue will be focused on a more productive use of resources.  
  
China is pushing for more disclosure as its financial markets are
disintermediated from the formal banking sector to securities and alternative
channels like Alibaba’s Yu’’e’bao and this should be pushed further while
acknowledging that there is nothing wrong with an Ebay equivalent moving into
credit.  
  
Yu’e bao (left over treasure) is reported as having more investors, 81
million, than China’s equity markets, 67 million and to be holding over $80
billion in deposits.7 Its online rivals Tencent Holding and Baidu have
launched similar products. While these businesses, by offering higher interest
rates to depositors, are cutting into the traditional banks’ interest margins,
so far the official reaction has been cautiously benign with Premier Li
Keqiang saying last week that the government would “promote the healthy
development of Internet banking.”8  
  
After all, who has better data with which to underwrite credit risk, the
business that knows each and every one of your products, customers, and sales,
or a bank that just sees the cash come in and go out?  
  
More importantly still it offers the prospect that household consumption and
hence income will start to grow at a faster rate than GDP (it cannot become a
more normal” share of GDP without doing so of course).  
  
The challenge for the political leadership is how to ensure that household
income and consumption can grow faster than GDP, with the consequence that
there will be slower growth in investment and especially construction activity
but do so without unacceptable increases in unemployment.  
  
A Chinese economy with a higher share of consumption (say 50% plus ) will have
a much larger services sector which is, of course, much more labour intensive
than the capital intensive heavy industries and infrastructure projects which
have been so advantaged in the past.  
  
This re-balancing is being supported by wage growth; whether China has passed
the Lewis turning point or not, the endless supply of cheap labour from the
countryside is both diminishing and proving less suitable for the higher
skills required in a more sophisticated economy with a greater share of
services.  
  
Australia, in its capacity simply as an exporter of energy and iron ore, may
have some anxieties about the inevitable slowing in GDP growth as investment
slows to allow consumption to grow. There is as usual considerable controversy
about the rate at which investment and GDP will decline. Freestone and Horton
suggest that a decline in the investment share of GDP by 10% will lead to a
2.7 per cent reduction in real GDP with a reduction in the size of the capital
stock by 11%.9 This would however only see investment decline to the still
relatively high 37% of GDP - about equal to the peak investment/GDP ratio
achieved by Korea and Japan.  
  
After years of this rebalancing not occurring, it does seem now that it will
happen driven by a combination of government policy, demographic change,
liberalisation and disintermediation driven by the growing Internet economy
and on that score it is worth noting that Alibaba is reported as having 2.5
times the turnover of Amazon and 4 times that of eBay.  
  
China has embraced ecommerce like no other country. There is probably nowhere
in the world where so much change - economic, social, political - is arising
from the phenomenon of the smart phone - the device all of us and increasingly
many if not yet most Chinese have in their pockets. A tiny device with the
processing power of a 1995 super computer connected to the Internet 24/7! As
friends of China and as trusted trading partners we in Australia have a vital
vested interest in China’s success and in the important economic rebalancing
restated as recently as the third plenum last year being achieved. Less
resource-intensive growth in China will offer a vast and growing range of
opportunities for enterprising Australians and Australian enterprises.  
  
Just as China has recently had to re-conceive its own economy as it
liberalises key factor markets (especially capital, but also land and energy)
much as from 1978 on it rapidly opened and liberalised product markets, so too
Australia has to re-conceive China. We need to think of China less as a
destination for bulk commodities - coal, gas and iron ore - and more as a
sophisticated market for high quality, differentiated services - education,
architecture, design, legal and financial services and technical services
among many others.  
  
The best way for Australians to share and support that prosperity is by
enhancing our understanding of China and its economy - and surely nobody has
contributed more to that end than Professor Ross Garnaut.  
  
Thank you for inviting me to open your conference. I look forward to the
discussions that follow.  
  
Footnotes  
  
1\. “Deepening Reform for China’s Long Term Growth and Development” Ligang
Song, Ross Garnaut, Cai Fang (eds) ANU 2014 at p. 9 ↩  
  
2\. Ibid at p. 56 in “Structural Imbalance, inequality and economic growth” by
Xiaolu Wang and Yixiao Zhou ibid at p. 133 ↩  
  
3\. Ibid at p. 133↩  
  
4\. Ibid at p. 107↩  
  
5\. See “China’s Growth and productivity Performance Debate Revisited” Harry X
Wu The Conference Board January 2014↩  
  
6\. Mr Pettis makes this argument in many places, a recent paper is his June
24 2014 paper “What does a “good” transition look like?” which can be found on
his China Financial Markets blog.↩  
  
7\. See ibtimes.com Moran Zhang 10 July 2014, also FT “China Funds: Web Coup
by Yu’e Bao spurs rivals into action” by Judith Evans June 15 2014↩  
  
8\. Ibid↩  
  
9\. “Deepening Reform for China’s Long Term Growth and Development” Ligang
Song, Ross Garnaut, Cai Fang (eds) ANU 2014 at p. 128↩Good afternoon. It is a pleasure to be here today to launch the Jobs In
Australia’s App Economy paper. I’d like to welcome Will Marshall, President of
the US Progressive Policy Institute and Michael Mandel. My thanks also to
Global Access Partners for organising this event.  
  
In the 1880s natural ice harvesting was big business - at its peak the US ice
market was worth about $660 million in today’s dollars. It was a clever and
labour intensive business. Workers would measure the thickness of lake ice
with a hand turned drill and, if thick enough, a horse drawn plough-like
device would crisscross the lake into a chess board of squares, which was then
cut into cubes.  
  
Demand was strong and firms were innovative. In Norway, a network of
artificial lakes provided a ready supply, and increasingly sophisticated
transport networks allowed ice to be shipped around the world. Businesses knew
they needed to innovate to stay competitive. American Fredric Tudor became the
‘Ice King’, pioneering techniques such as packing the ice with sawdust instead
of straw to better insulate ice being transported across the tropics.  
  
But despite the ingenuity, the fall of the ice trade was abrupt. In 1882, the
first commercially viable refrigerated ship, the Dunedin, sailed from Auckland
to London and in 1911 General Electric released its first household fridge. By
1910 the US was only exporting 15,000 tons of ice, a far cry from the boom
days in the 1880s where more than four million tons was stored on the Hudson
River.  
  
Shortly after, the ice harvesting industry came to an abrupt end. I’m sure
some of you are thinking, “what’s this go to do with apps?” It’s all about
disruption and innovation. For businesses to survive today, they need to be
more than just technically efficient. They also need to experiment outside
their traditional markets. They need to be aware that with the internet almost
all sectors, all industries, are trade exposed, driving global competition.
The app economy epitomises that demand. Check your smartphone - how many
alerts do you receive to update you about a new feature, a new product? The
app economy is adaptive and innovative, and all businesses have a lot of learn
from its agility.  
  
The Australian App Economy  
  
For the first time in history, a business has access to every consumer with a
mobile phone - that’s about 1.5 billion people. If your business operates an
app, consumers across the globe can access your services. But more than that,
consumers can also access the services of your competitors.  
  
The days of the local competition being just down the road are long gone.
Australia’s economy is strong and growing, but within that is the threat and
opportunity of digital disruption. Two-thirds of Australian businesses face
imminent disruption. According to the ABS, 460,800 workers were employed in
the 18 primary ICT occupations in August 2012,[1] with ICT workers accounting
for 4.1 per cent of our total workforce. In the next five years employment in
the ICT sector is projected to grow by 33,200 workers, or 7.1 per cent.[2] The
importance of the ICT sector to Australia’s economy is clear.  
  
Research by the Centre for Innovative Industries Economic Research estimates
that ICT contributed 6.9% to GDP. The same research found that the annual
contribution of the digital economy to the broader Australian economy was $100
billion in 2011.[3] Dr Mandel’s paper makes a useful contribution -
identifying apps as a major and growing part of the ICT sector and of the
economy more generally. It tells a very positive story - that many Australians
understand the importance of apps for their business, whether they are small
businesses connecting directly with consumers or providing services to
multinationals.  
  
App development is becoming one of Australia’s strengths and one where we can
compete with the best in the world. Dr Mandel’s report finds that there are
139,000 jobs in the Australian app economy. In Sydney, 10.7% of ICT jobs
relate directly to app development, more than in New York, Chicago or London -
albeit a long way from Silicon Valley’s 17.6%.  
  
Demand for apps continues to grow, suggesting there’s a limited role for
government here and the best thing we can do is to get out of the way to let
private sector innovation continue to flourish.  
  
Cloud Computing and Open Data  
  
I would like to finish by touching on a few of the important things government
is doing to improve the way it uses ICT and to encourage innovation. The first
is cloud computing. The Government will soon release a revised cloud computing
policy - to significantly increase the take up of cloud services by federal
government agencies, consistent with our policy for e-Government and the
Digital Economy. And as important as vision statements are, of most importance
are the actions we’re taking to remove barriers that currently restrict, and
in many cases actually prevent, agencies from procuring cloud services.  
  
We cannot shy away from the fact that we need to improve the way ICT has
traditionally been delivered by government. Consider the fact that the federal
government alone spends about $6 billion a year on ICT and yet has spent less
than $5 million on cloud services since July 2010. Changes, which I look
forward to announcing in the coming weeks, will present a range of
opportunities for cloud service providers as government agencies increasingly
move to deliver ICT as a service. The second is open data - an area where we
are making good progress. Open data is a key government lever which, if used
correctly, can help to spur innovation.  
  
The Government recognises the immense enabling role that open dta can play -
particularly when it comes to app creation. The Coalition has a clear agenda
to release government data in anonymised and machine readable form as standard
practice. As a result, 86% of the data available through data.gov.au has been
added since the Abbott Government came to power, with a number of new valuable
datasets to be added over the coming months.  
  
Let me return to where I started. Fredric ‘the Ice King’ Tudor ended up in a
debtor’s prison twice before he was able to crack the ice market. Failure is
the hallmark of many successful innovators. As this paper shows, Australia is
well placed to rise to the challenge of digital disruption and embrace the app
economy. Cloud computing, open data and apps are completely changing the way
business, and increasingly government, engage with their customers.  
  
Governments and businesses that fail to embrace these technologies risk being
left behind by new ideas and new innovations, or even melting away like those
early ice traders. I thank the authors for this report. [ends]  
  
[1] Australian Workforce and Productivity Agency, ICT Workforce Study, July
2013, p30 http://www.awpa.gov.au/publications/Documents/ICT-STUDY-
FINAL-28-JUNE-2013.pdf  
  
[2] Department of Education, Employment and Workplace Relations, Meeting
Australia’s future ICT skills needs July 2013.  
  
[3] Australian Computer Society, Australian ICT Statistical Compendium 2013
http://www.acs.org.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0004/28570/Australian-ICT-
Statistical-Compendium-2013.pdf  
  
[4] http://www.idc.com/getdoc.jsp?containerId=prAU24222413  
  
[5] http://www.pm.gov.au/media/2013-12-18/securing-australias-manufacturing-
future## Check Against Delivery ##  
  
It is an honour to be in presence of so many distinguished journalists and
foreign correspondents.  
  
And without singling out any other of the many distinguished guests may I
acknowledge Andrew Greste whose brother Peter is imprisoned in Egypt after a
trial that was no more than a shocking mockery of justice.  
  
  
  
Peter Greste is a great Australian journalist who was simply doing his job,
but had the bad luck to be working for the Al Jazeera a news organisation
whose owners are regarded as political opponents by the new Egyptian regime.
Our Government has condemned this decision to imprison Peter, not least
because it is part of a broader attempt to silence a free press.  
  
Our Foreign Minister Julie Bishop has met with her Egyptian counterpart,
Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry as recently as last month to argue for Peter’s
release. An appeal has been lodged and our officials will continue to provide
every assistance to Peter’s family.  
  
We are often reminded that our freedoms, our way of life are secured because
our defence forces are prepared to put their lives on the line. We should not
forget that the price of the news we read every day, of the transparency,
accountability indeed democracy that only a free press can ensure is all too
often paid in lives and liberty put at risk by journalists like Peter Greste.  
  
In my youth I was fascinated by journalism, by newspapers, radio and
television. Not just because, like so many young males, I was easily bored and
naturally attracted to anything that meant I did not need to concentrate on
one topic for too long.  
  
The romance of news, the adventure, the power and influence were all
intoxicating. I remember returning home from a hiking adventure in Tasmania in
1972 and spending a night in Melbourne - my first.  
  
I remember going with my friends to Young & Jacksons to admire Chloe and drink
beer in pints and then late in the evening we went down to The Age building,
still owned by an independent David Syme & Co and edited by Graham Perkin, and
we lay on the footpath to feel the thunder of the presses as they shook the
street and in a few hours the whole city as the news of the day roared out on
a fleet of trucks.  
  
So I tried my hand at journalism, first at The Nation Review then with Radio
2SM and the Nine Network all the while studying law at the University. My
first beat, as it were, was the State Parliament and while I was too young to
evolve into the classic lobby correspondent - chronicler and conspirator in
equal measures - I was thrilled to get to know and occasionally cross swords
with the political greats of that time including of course my future friend
and business partner Neville Wran.  
  
My great hero was Harold Evans the editor of the London Sunday Times and of
course his great hero, of whom he often spoke, was Nick Tomalin the foreign
correspondent killed by a Syrian missile while covering the Yom Kippur war in
1973.  
  
I first met Evans at the Cambridge Union in 1975. He was one of the guest
speakers and I spoke later from the floor in the debate. A little after my
speech I was handed a note on Sunday Times letterhead. “Come and see me in the
Grays Inn Road if you want to be a journalist” and it was signed by Harold
Evans. A summons from God.  
  
When I met Evans, the next morning, he urged me to drop my legal studies and
concentrate on journalism. He was very persuasive and he summed it up like
this. “If you become a lawyer you will make much more money than you will as a
journalist. But you will be bored out of your wits. You might become a judge -
more boring still. Or, “and at this point his voice dropped ominously “worse
still you could become a politician.”  
  
He didn’t need to elaborate on that dread prospect.  
  
My own efforts as a foreign correspondent were not distinguished. But I did
have a few adventure. In 1974 my trusty Olivetti portable financed my travels
through the USA including a visit to Montgomery Alabama.  
  
I was shocked to see that the flag of the United States was barely present -
flown only from federal buildings like Post Offices. Everywhere else they flew
the Confederate flag and the state flag of Alabama. It was like a different
country.  
  
The Governor was George Wallace and I managed to crash a press conference he
was holding and then secure an interview with him, we canvassed his future
plans, a possible joint ticket with Ronald Reagan and the prospects of young
Jimmy Carter. . In his wheelchair, he still radiated a menacing strength as he
told me that everything I had read about the South was wrong and everything
was different in Alabama.  
  
So when he proposed to appoint me a Lieutenant Colonel in the Alabama State
Militia, I felt it wise not to decline.  
  
I did feel a long way from home.  
  
On another occasion working on a story for Channel Nine in New York I met
Rupert Murdoch for the first time. He had just bought the New York Magazine
and Village Voice and was declining all interviews. I had a good story in the
can - I had even bumped into Robert Hughes in the street and obtained a
typically colourful interview. But no Rupert. So I rang every extension I
could think off at the New York Post until late in the evening a familiarly
Australian voice answered. I quickly explained to Mr Murdoch my problem -
without him I had no story, with him I had a scoop. Perhaps remembering what
it was to be young and a reporter, the great man relented and we piled into a
cab and flew down to the Post’s office on the east river and I interviewed
Rupert on the waterfront across the road from his office.  
  
Later when I was at university at Oxford I continued to work as a journalist
stringing for Packer’s ACP including The Bulletin and the Women's Weekly.
Harold Evans forgave me for going back to Law School and gave me a job on The
Sunday Times.  
  
In those days the Australian media companies had a substantial presence in
London. The Packers’ ACP not only had an office on Ludgate Circus at the end
of Fleet Street but their chief correspondent had a fine company house in the
West End and a driver. And the Fairfax establishment was even grander as I
recall. Those were the days.  
  
Next door on Fleet Street was the art deco magnificence of the Daily Express
building, immortalised in Private Eye as "the black Lubyanka" and the columns
of the Daily Telegraph head quarters built to convey a message of money and
power, and still doing so, but now alas as the home of Goldman Sachs. The
world of which I reminisce is not so long ago in years from us today but a
galaxy, or should I say an iPhone, away in so many other ways.  
  
In those days an Australian abroad would find nothing about Australia in the
local press apart from the cricket scores and then only if you were in a
cricketing country. Australians at home learned about the rest of the world
exclusively through Australian media.  
  
Today the world is utterly changed. The Internet and the smart phone mean that
most people in the developed world and soon most people in the whole world
will be able to connect with each other 24/7. Australians can read The Wall
Street Journal or the New York Times as easily as they can read their local
papers. Social media offers an avalanche of news: it seems that the modern
insurgent has a gun in one hand and a smartphone in the other tweeting and
facebooking his opponents’ and, often as we have seen most apallingly this
week, his own atrocities.  
  
It is a far cry from the world of Evelyn Waugh's Scoop when William Boot was
sent off to Ishmaelia by Lord Copper of The Beast to cover what was hoped to
be a war in Ishmaelia.  
  
“What the British public wants first, last and all the time is News,” said
Lord Copper “Remember that the Patriots are in the right and are going to win.
The Beast stands by them four square. But they must win quickly. The British
public has no interest in a war which drags on indecisively. A few sharp
victories, some conspicuous acts of personal bravery on the Patriot side and a
colourful entry into the capital. That is the Beast policy for the war.....We
shall expect the first victory about the middle of July.”  
  
The Foreign Correspondent Business Model  
  
A recent feature on Indonesia’s President-elect, Joko Widodo or Jokowi, by
Fairfax correspondent Michael Bachelard [1], noted his favourite method for
cutting down on corruption and exposing what’s really going on in the
bureaucracy was by conducting what is known in Bahasa as ‘blukusan’ -- the
unannounced visit.  
  
At its most fundamental, that is also the job of the foreign correspondent: To
be immersed in a foreign, to speak to the elites certainly but well beyond
them, to test the official narrative and statistics against the lived
experience and to listen to those who would otherwise not be heard. The days
of simply rewriting the local news are over - all of that is available
instantly to your readers and editors back home.  
  
But getting access is especially hard for a foreign correspondent. Everywhere
in the world, politics is local and so is the media focus of the politicians.  
  
It has always been expensive to maintain a foreign bureau and that is even
without William Boot’s supply of cleft sticks.  
  
The Harvard Shorenstein Center calculated in 2007 that it costs up to AUD
$318,000 a year to maintain a very basic office overseas, and can cost up to
AUD$1.6 million a year in a city like Baghdad [2], which has extra security
requirements. One Australian correspondent said that a bureau in Indonesia
costs over AUD $300,000 a year to maintain, once you take into account the
cost of accommodation, children’s’ school fees, paying stringers and local
assistants, rent and of course salaries.  
  
Only the ABC now has a substantial international presence with twenty
Australian and 35 locally engaged staff overseas; a good example of what a
public broadcaster should do in my view. It is, of course, much cheaper to fly
in teams to cover specific stories on an on-needs basis. A study by the Media
Standards Trust in the U.K. found this has become much more attractive for
news organisations to cover locations when there is a specific event or crisis
- such as, say, Ukraine. But this comes at the expense of a deep knowledge of
the country and the contacts needed to develop stories in depth [3].  
  
In an online world, the Fairfax correspondent in Washington or Tokyo is not
just competing against a competitor from News Limited or a wire service; they
are competing against every conceivable source of news whether it is the NY
Times, the FT, the Wall Street Journal or the English language online edition
of the Asahi Shimbun.  
  
The New York Times averages 50 million unique visitors to its website each
month, of which, 17 million, or 34 per cent, are outside of the U.S. [4] The
Guardian has 40 million unique users visit its website each month and a
staggering two-thirds of them outside of the U.K. [5]  
  
In June, the Guardian had almost 1.8 million unique viewers come to its site
in Australia, more than visited the Daily Telegraph’s site [6]. The BBC had
more than 1.6 million unique viewers in Australia - more than the Courier
Mail. The Huffington Post was barely edged out by The Australian with 1.3
million unique viewers and the New York Times had 731,000 unique viewers.  
  
Media companies on digital platforms tend to chase two things to get clicks:
Cover immediate, breaking news on the one hand; and go for opinion and
commentary, the more intemperate the better, on the other, to reap social
media shares, likes and retweets. As I have said before, it often feels like
the ‘news cycle’ has been replaced by the ‘outrage cycle’.  
  
But there is a genre of news story that lies in the middle on these two
extremes -- they are those stories which take a few days to put together,
involve the skilful working of contacts and sources, and require a deep and
nuanced knowledge of the subject matter. Reuters Editor-in-Chief David
Schlesinger describes the new media world as enshrining the ‘dumbbell model’
[7] of journalism -- all the weight has now shifted to the two ends of
journalism, leaving not much in the middle.  
  
As one very senior journalist in Canberra’s press gallery told me: ‘There has
been a huge amount of complacency, a growing lack of media interest in policy,
[and] a function of that is a most conspicuous lack of interest in what other
countries are doing in a policy sense, and this is reinforced by the problems
of the business models of newspapers’.  
  
But interestingly, while there may be more of a focus on less weighty issues,
consumers nominate foreign affairs as the most important reason for following
the news. Although numbers in Australia are hard to come by, the U.K.
regulator Ofcom does an annual survey on news consumption [8] which found
‘world-wide current affairs’ was:  
  
● The topic mostly likely to be of interest to respondents (37 per cent), well
ahead of celebrities (11 per cent) and ahead of U.K. politics, local current
affairs, crime, sport and finance. ● The type of news that most people thought
was important to know (49 per cent).  
  
As a result of all these factors, the number of foreign correspondents working
today is in decline.  
  
The Pew Research Centre’s 2014 State of the News Media found that the number
of foreign correspondents working for U.S. newspapers have fallen from 307 in
2003 to 234 in 2011, a drop of 24 per cent [9].  
  
The situation is even worse when it comes to broadcast television in the U.S.
The amount of time devoted to overseas reporting during evening newscasts in
2013 was less than half of what it was in the late 1980s [10]. During the
1980s, the big U.S networks - ABC, NBC and CBS - each maintained about 15
foreign bureaux but by 2007 they had six or fewer, with bureaux being shut
down in Moscow, Paris, Tokyo, Beijing, Cairo and Johannesburg [11].  
  
Definitive numbers in Australia are much harder to quantify.  
  
In the 1960s the Herald and Weekly Times maintained five journalists in
London, three in New York, full-time correspondents in Paris, Rome, Singapore
and Rabaul, plus shared correspondents in Johannesburg, Tokyo, Toronto and New
Delhi. Fairfax maintained large bureaux in London and New York[12].  
  
But such an extensive foreign presence would be unheard of for a newspaper
group today. In recent years, The Australian has closed bureaux in Washington,
New York, Los Angeles, London, Bangkok and New Zealand but still has
correspondents in Jakarta, Beijing, Tokyo, Southeast Asia, Jerusalem and of
course a very extensive network of correspondents to draw upon from the wider
News Corp stable.  
  
Fairfax has correspondents in Washington, London, Beijing, Delhi, the Middle
East and has reinstated Lindsay Murdoch in Southeast Asia, based in Bangkok.
Over the years it has pulled out from Wellington, Tokyo and New York.  
  
The Australian Financial Review no longer has anyone in Tokyo, our second
largest trading partner. The ABC is the standout in this area. It has bureaux
in Washington, London, New Zealand, Jakarta, Beijing, Bangkok, Jerusalem, New
Delhi, Tokyo and stringers in many other locations.  
  
Some journalists and editors I have spoken to have mused whether foreign news
is less important in the local media than it used to be. Not because
Australians had lost interest in the rest of the world - that has increased -
but because there are so many other sources of foreign news available thanks
to the Internet.  
  
One senior journalist I spoke to said that it was routine for the Sydney
Morning Herald to have at least one foreign story on the front page every day.
Now it is possible to go many weeks he said without a single foreign story on
the front page.  
  
Impact on our Understanding of Common Policy Challenges  
  
The vast volume of online news keeps us up to speed about what is happening
anywhere and everywhere, but it does have limitations.  
  
There are places where the local media are not well informed and/or are not
available online in English. Knowing what is going on in New York is easy. But
what about Cairo or Aleppo? Or closer to home, Hanoi, Taipei or Jakarta?  
  
It is noteworthy that the Australian no longer has a correspondent in London
or New York, in part no doubt because it can rely on other News Corporation
publications in those centres, but it does keep a correspondent in Jakarta.  
  
And then there is context. What does news in a far flung place mean for
Australians? Of course some of this context can be injected by seasoned and
knowledgeable writers at home. The New York Times’ Tom Friedman was one of the
first to do this and he has local counterparts like Greg Sheridan and Peter
Hartcher, who are based in Australia but read widely, have a lengthy list of
foreign contacts and travel enough to keep those relationships and connections
fresh.  
  
But there is one aspect of reporting on the rest of the world and placing
information in an Australian context that I believe is underdone.  
  
Let me start with a little background. When I was first elected to Parliament,
one facet of the policy debate that I found quite striking was the lack of
interest most policy makers in Canberra had in other countries’ choices and
outcomes. The same was largely true of the reporting of public policy in the
press.  
  
Compare this to the business world, which has long necessarily been
international – not just because of cross-border integration and the fact that
so many businesses are global, but because we all appreciate that what works
or sells in one market is highly likely to work in another.  
  
These commonalities are more nuanced in public policy – widely varying
cultures, histories and political and economic institutions are more
influential. Nevertheless, the truth is that most policy challenges particular
jurisdictions confront are not unique or unprecedented, whatever local
politicians may say – other policymakers have grappled with them, or with very
similar issues, and over time have tried different approaches yielding
different results.  
  
The Australian media rarely reports how different countries have approached
what are usually shared and very familiar issues that are topical in our own
country, even if the issue is dominating the news.  
  
And the little such reporting there was in the past has almost disappeared in
the digital age. Think about the example of contemporary New Zealand. In the
1980s and 1990s there was at least a modest but useful flow of information
about the radical economic reforms that transformed new Zealand from the most
regulated, rigid capitalist economy in the world to the most open and free –
and the political convulsions that followed. Earnest and sprightly young
economics writers such as Michael Stutchbury, Alan Mitchell and Ross Gittins
would periodically be despatched across the ditch by their editors to report
back from the front line.  
  
Over the past decade, New Zealand has faced many of the same policy challenges
and far stiffer economic headwinds than Australia, and started from a much
weaker position. Yet the Kiwis have managed to deliver a far superior record
of economic performance and reform since the GFC than Australia, particularly
under John Key.  
  
Since 2009 New Zealand has managed to execute significant tax reform –
increasing their GST to 15 per cent to shift their revenue mix toward indirect
taxes, and broadening the bases and lowering the rates of direct taxes on
personal and company income.  
  
The New Zealand Budget has shifted from a deficit of 9.2 per cent of GDP four
years ago – twice as much red ink as Wayne Swan ever managed – to surplus this
year [13]. Although the worst deficit year was distorted by the Canterbury
earthquakes, [14] New Zealand’s fiscal consolidation since the GFC  
  
(most of it coming from curtailing spending) is one of the most exemplary in
the developed world. [15] Economic growth is forecast to exceed growth in
Australia next year.  
  
Economic policy success in New Zealand has received only the most cursory
coverage in Australia. An analysis by the Parliamentary Library found that
from 2009, only 15 articles in major Australian newspapers explored tax reform
in New Zealand - and almost half were opinion pieces written by think tanks or
lobby groups.  
  
Likewise, consider media coverage of the car industry over the past few years
in Australia. One could gain the impression that Australia’s experience has
been unique – that we are the only nation in the OECD where automobile
manufacturing has suffered steep decline.  
  
Perhaps this is due to the paucity of Australian correspondents in the US,
Japan, Germany and France – economies which have been far more emphatically
shaped by the ebb and flow of global vehicle production, as some nations gain
and others lose.  
  
The car industry is global and intensely competitive, and so international
trends are the trends that matter. Large manufacturers are consolidating
factories and manufacturing locations: General Motors will cut its total
number of production facilities by more than half by 2018, as it opens new
plants that achieve increased economies of scale by churning out more than
400,000 vehicles a year. That is twice the output of our entire industry.  
  
So even as we acknowledge the impact the closure of car makers in Australia
will have on affected employees and communities, we must also remind ourselves
that our industry accounts for barely a quarter of 1 per cent of global auto
production. [16]  
  
And even setting scale and distance aside, we should bear in mind that the
viability of our industry has been significantly shaped by the cost in our
economy – relative to other economies – of regulations such as safety and
environmental standards imposed on the industry, and additional expense
imposed by our industrial relations regime.  
  
When the Productivity Commission looked at the local industry’s relative
position, the very first line of its report noted: “Global forces are driving
(and are likely to continue to drive) dramatic changes in both the demand for
motor vehicles and the size, scale and location of production.” [17]  
  
Despite all of these relevant forces, debate in Australia mostly centred upon
the most visible, simplistic of domestic influences – the level of subsidy
Australians are willing to provide to the industry. Coverage of the closures
of Holden and ford was shorn of context and a deeper understanding of the
policy issues raised.  
  
Finally my favourite example – broadband policy.  
  
The previous Government made a commitment in 2007 to spend billions of
taxpayers’ dollars – 4.7 billion of them to be precise – to upgrade broadband
infrastructure. This is not exceptional; many (although far from all) advanced
and emerging economies are doing likewise.  
  
But from 2009 onwards, a series of extraordinary policy choices resulted in
Australia tackling a familiar and shared problem – how to achieve widespread
access to very fast broadband – with a policy of exotic uniqueness.  
  
No other country created a Government-owned start-up to deliver the upgrades;
no other country is spending as much per premise for the upgrades and most
other countries are encouraging infrastructure-based competition rather than
paying competitors with sunk costs to close down their fully functional
networks.  
  
Broadband was we were told a vital issue at the last election. The Coalition
had a comprehensive policy which had been derived in large part from my
research into what other countries were doing. In particular I noted that
considerable savings were made by not taking fibre into every premises as the
Labor government had planned. Our fibre to the node approach was ridiculed and
attacked as unworkable, out of date, a technological absurdity.  
  
So if this was the big issue surely the international experience was relevant.
Surely any level of journalistic curiosity would have caused an editor to send
a reporter to interview BT or ATT&amp;T; or Deutsche Telekom about their
experience.  
  
And so I issued a challenge to journalists and our major media organisations -
who do have the requisite reporters and networks overseas to do the story
justice - to do a comparison of what other countries are doing and what
technologies are being deployed.  
  
After three years of frustration and complaints, the only two people to
actually do an international comparison were not from the mainstream press at
all: They were Phil Dobbie and Josh Taylor, who write for industry
publications CommsDay and ZDNet.  
  
The ABC was no exception. They devoted hundreds of hours to talking about
broadband but with the biggest international news gathering network in the
nation, they resolutely failed to do anything to give Australians the
comparative information they deserved.  
  
We should, intellectually, get out more.  
  
Conclusion  
  
There is an argument that in a world where everyone has access to social media
and google, that foreign correspondents are no longer really needed -- that it
is a relic that no longer reflects the realities of how news is gathered or
what the economics of media organisations will allow.[18]  
  
This is an issue that many, many journalists - particularly senior journalists
- have raised with me and there is a tendency particularly among younger
journalists to rely on Google rather than forging their own contacts and
wearing out their shoe leather.  
  
Although the author gives a nuanced argument about economic pressures of
newsrooms in maintaining foreign bureaux, he presents an optimistic view of
these being replaced by social media and local reporters, stating: “The social
media phenomenon has turned the 140 characters of Twitter into an effective
news source. We are increasingly guided by our friends and peers through
recommendations and links. Everyone now has access to the public space, giving
rise to citizen journalism and more” (p.27).  
  
Indeed the world has changed and it would be foolish to think that digital
platforms are useless when it comes to news-gathering. But there is something
admirable in the tradecraft developed by generations of journalists who didn’t
source-check their stories via the Internet.  
  
Most people now agree that the spring of citizen journalism has turned out to
be like many of the recent ‘springs’ that have occurred in the Middle East:
Nuanced, multi-layered and not lending itself to simplistic narratives.  
  
Indeed a recent study found that not everything is always as it seems with the
social media images coming out of Tunisia and Egypt. Supposed grassroots
social media posts are increasing in their professionalism and media
organisations struggling to verify the credibility of their posts [19].  
  
The term that has arisen to describe the reliance on social media for
reporting - “accidental journalism” - has never seemed so apt. In tough
economic conditions when consumers have access to a deluge of information,
credibility for media organisations is more important than ever, not less. I
am reminded of the sardonic quip of the veteran CBS correspondent Morley
Safer, when he said: “I would trust citizen journalism as much as I would
trust citizen surgery”[20].  
  
And it is worth noting that while Australian news organisations are pulling
back from maintaining foreign bureaux, most of the journalists that I have
spoken to are genuinely surprised at how many still remain, even though there
have been deeper cuts elsewhere in the business.  
  
It was the world-weary English journalist Thomas Fowler in The Quiet American
who summed up why you can’t always rely on a writer popping in and out of a
foreign country to tell their stories: “They say you come to Vietnam and you
understand a lot in a few minutes, but the rest has got to be lived.”  
  
On returning from China where he worked for six years with Fairfax, John
Garnaut wrote a beautiful piece about his time there, echoing these same
sentiments and reminding us that a foreign correspondent lives and breathes
each story more than just about any other journalist on any other beat:  
  
“Each night,” John wrote, “my head reeled with the implications of information
absorbed but not fully digested. Where was China going? Was I doing justice to
the story and getting the balance right? Grey hairs appeared, the skin under
my eyes grew darker and I found myself jolted wide awake, bathed in sweat, in
the pre-dawn hours each morning. With every road trip and each deep interview,
I discovered afresh how little I'd known before.”  
  
We all, as citizens, depend on John and his colleagues getting those stories
right and that is why it is such an honour to be here tonight.  
  
ENDS  
  
  
  
[1] Bachelard, M., (2014), “Joko Widodo: A Man With a Mission”, in The Sydney
Morning Herald, available online here: http://www.smh.com.au/lifestyle/joko-
widodo-man-with-a-mission-20140609-... [2] Carroll, J., (2007), “Foreign News
Coverage: The U.S. Media’s Most Undervalued Asset”, p.8, available online
here: http://shorensteincenter.org/wp-
content/uploads/2012/03/2007_01_carroll.pdf [3] Estimates for a fly-in team to
cover specific stories is as little as £6000 (AUD$10,800) per story - see:
Moore,  
  
M., (2010), “Shrinking world: the decline of international reporting in the
British Press” available online here:  
  
http://mediastandardstrust.org/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2010/10/Shri...
international-reporting.pdf  
  
[4] NY Times, (2014), “Innovation Report”, p.19 available online here:  
  
http://www.scribd.com/doc/224608514/The-Full-New-York-Times-Innovation-R...
[5] Doctor, K., (2014), “The Newsonomics of the Guardian’s New ‘Known’
Strategy”, available online here:  
  
http://www.niemanlab.org/2014/02/the-newsonomics-of-the-guardians-new-kn...
[6] Nielsen Online Ratings, (2014), “Unique Audience for News Sites - June
2014”.  
  
[7] Quoted in Sambrook, R., (2010), “Are Foreign Correspondents Redundant? The
Changing Face of International News”, published by the Reuters Institute for
the Study of Journalism, p.8, available online here;
http://www.ox.ac.uk/media/news_stories/2010/100912_1.html [8] Ofcom, (2014),
“News Consumption in the U.K.”, available online here:
http://stakeholders.ofcom.org.uk/market-data-research/other/tv-research/... .
Figures cited are available in the data tables, pp.28-32  
  
[9] Pew Research Center, (2014), “The State of the News Media”, p.5, available
online here: http://www.journalism.org/files/2014/03/Overview.pdf [10] Ibid  
  
[11] Constable, P., (2007), “Demise of the Foreign Correspondent’, in the
Washington Post, February 18, available here:
http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-
dyn/content/article/2007/02/16/AR2007021601713.html  
  
[12] D Warner, (1965), “Foreign news”, in L Revill and C Roderick [eds] The
Journalist’s craft: a guide to modern practice, p. 207.  
  
[13] NZ Treasury, (2014), “Budget Economic and Fiscal Update”, available
online here http://www.treasury.govt.nz/budget/forecasts/befu2014/befu14.pdf.  
  
[13] NZ Treasury, (2014), “Budget Economic and Fiscal Update”, available
online here http://www.treasury.govt.nz/budget/forecasts/befu2014/befu14.pdf .  
  
[14] NZ Treasury estimated that half of the 2010-11 deficit could be accounted
for in one-off effects due to the Canterbury earthquakes:
http://www.treasury.govt.nz/budget/2013/fsr/04.htm [15] MF, (2013), “Fiscal
Monitor”, p.5, available online here:  
  
http://www.imf.org/external/pubs/ft/fm/2013/02/pdf/fm1302.pdf [16] PC, (2013),
“Automotive Manufacturing in Australia: Preliminary Findings”, p.27: available
online here:  
  
http://www.pc.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0005/131396/automotive-preli...
[17] Ibid  
  
[18] For instance: Sambrook, R., (2010), “Are Foreign Correspondents
Redundant”, available online here:  
  
https://reutersinstitute.politics.ox.ac.uk/sites/default/files/Are%20For...
%20The%20changing%20face%20of%20international%20news.pdf.  
  
[19] Bossio, D., and Bebawi, S., (2012), “Reaping and Sowing the news from an
Arab Spring: The Politicised interaction between traditional and alternative
journalistic practitioners”, Global Media Journal, Vol 6, No 2., available
online here:
http://researchbank.swinburne.edu.au/vital/access/manager/Repository/swi... 20
Quoted in The Economist, (2013), “Foreign Correspondents”, available online
at: http://www.economist.com/news/international/21578662-amateur-
journalists... foreign-correspondents  
  
[20] Quoted in The Economist, (2013), “Foreign Correspondents”, available
online at: http://www.economist.com/news/international/21578662-amateur-
journalists... foreign-correspondents### Check Against Delivery ###  
  
Good morning and welcome to the Newspaper Works ‘Future Forum’ where the
publishers are able to come together to discuss industry trends and the future
of their industry.  
  
I would like to welcome in particular:  
  
● The chief executive of the Newspaper Works, Mark Hollands ● Yasmin Namini,
Chief Consumer Officer of The New York Times ● And some of the industry’s key
chief executives who will be conducting a panel discussion this morning
including Julian Clarke from News Corp, Greg Hywood from Fairfax, Michael
Miller from APN and Chris Wharton from Seven West Media WA.  
  
The Australian Story and Innovation Among Publishers  
  
Our democracy depends on a free press.  
  
The work journalists and editors do is just as important to our democracy as
that done by politicians like me or judges or public servants.  
  
  
  
Newspapers have been the most important foundations of journalism. They have
had the scale and the influence to frame and host the big debates on the big
issues. They have been big and ornery enough to take on powerful vested
interests (and each other ) and have held governments to account.  
  
Before I move onto the economics of the newspaper industry, the subject of
this conference, let us reflect on the brutal murder of James Foley and the
very high price that so many of our journalists, your colleagues and
employees, pay to deliver us the news, pay to ensure our democracy.
Journalists and journalism arre in the front line of the battle for democracy.  
  
I condemn the murderers of James Foley, extend our condolences to his family
and express the support of our Government to all journalists, including our
own Peter Greste wrongfully imprisoned in Egypt, who are paying a high and all
too often cruel price for freedom’s sake.  
  
Now we all understand the nature of the challenge. The Internet has created a
universal uber-platform now accessible from any device anywhere anytime that
simply offers a more cost effective platform for advertising and especially
classifieds.  
  
A lot of people have criticised newspaper managements over the years for not
seeing this coming and it is ironic that while the Internet became commercial
twenty years ago newspaper advertising revenues continued to grow until
relatively recently.  
  
However even if the management of Fairfax which had dominated newspaper
classifieds, for example, had seized all the obvious-in-hindsight
opportunities so that they owned all of Seek and other online platforms, while
their shareholders would be better off, their newspaper business would be
facing the same challenges of declining revenues and profits and consequently
shrinking newsrooms.  
  
Newspaper advertising revenue in the United States peaked in 2005; Australia’s
peaked in 2008, the year after the first iPhone was shipped. Compared to 2003,
the U.S. has seen a decline of print advertising revenues by 60 per cent while
in Australia the decline has been 28 per cent.  
  
Sometimes it is better to be few years behind the US.  
  
And yet when it comes to innovation and embracing new online business models,
arguably Australian publishers have been ahead of the curve. It is barely a
year since our two major publishers, News Limited and Fairfax introduced
metered paywalls for their sites1, and the evidence is that our major
mastheads now have around half a million paid, digital subscriptions. At
Fairfax there are 140,000 digital-only subscribers to The Age and The Sydney
Morning Herald while those titles have around another 110,000 subscribers who
have bundled physical and digital packages2. Both the Sydney Morning Herald
and The Age have more digital subscribers on Monday to Friday than they have
subscribers to their physical paper (though less than their total sales)3.
News Limited has more than 200,000 digital subscribers its titles and plans to
re-launch its paywalls in the near future, making them simpler and easier to
use4. The Australian managed to increase the number of digital subscriptions,
now boasting more than 64,000 digital subscribers, while doubling its weekly
price to $6 – a sign that there is still an audience for quality journalism.
Compared to their international peers, Australian publishers have done well.
This financial year, Fairfax has seen revenue from digital subscriptions rise
to $24 million, which accounts for around 9 per cent of the digital revenues
from its metro titles5. By comparison, digital subscription revenues at the
New York Times company saw digital subscription revenue of around US$41
million last quarter, which was slightly less than 11 per cent of total
revenue6. Digital subscriptions were $82 million at the New York Times out of
$419 mn in total circulation revenue over the last six months..  
  
PWC are forecasting industry-wide digital subscription revenue to grow ten-
fold until 2018, with around 6.1 million Australians paying for a digital
subscription. Of course each new digital subscriber will bring less revenue
per user, but the forecast is that there will be almost double the number of
total paying subscribers once digital is taken into account. Revenue from
circulation should begin to plateau at around $1.2 billion, down from the $1.3
billion earned currently7. In other words, if you can collect enough digital
dimes you may well end up with close to a dollar after all.  
  
Clearly paywalls are not a silver bullet. Publishers have to find the correct
balance between making sure that people pay to read their stuff and at the
same time maximise the eyeballs on their sites for the sake of advertisers.
This is nothing new - publishers have had the same debate about cover prices
since time immemorial. The best model, originally pioneered by the FT I am
informed by Yasmin Namini, is the freemium model.  
  
The Sydney Morning Herald’s paywall, for instance, was introduced allowing 30
free articles a month8 while the News+ paywall offered people between five and
15 free articles a month9. Each outlet gets, on average, 10 and 11 sessions
per month per user respectively10, with a number of page impressions each
session, but readers are not necessarily going to bump up against the paywall.
The Industry Responds to Digital Disruption  
  
The term ‘digital disruption’ is well known to all of us here today. Jeff
Bezos, himself now a newspaper proprietor, decided that an ebook should cost
under $1011; Netflix delivers a platform where people can watch an array of
content whenever they like; the music industry innovates in the sound quality
on compact discs and then along comes Spotify.  
  
The old models of production and distribution are being changed forever;
entire supply chains will disappear; customers’ behaviours change and
eventually too, so must the behaviour of the incumbents if they are to have a
place in the new environment.  
  
The Internet has not just offered new and cheaper platforms for advertising
and, because of the superior functionality of online search, especially
classifieds, it has also dramatically lowered the barriers to entry for new
competitors.  
  
Sir Frank Packer sold The Daily Telegraph to Rupert Murdoch in 1972 and
regretted it. Trevor Kennedy recalls the big old man wheezing with emphysema
prowling through the cavernous emptiness of what had been the Telegraph’s
press room and dreaming of making a comeback.  
  
His son Kerry came close to getting back into the newspaper business, nearly
merging with the Herald & Weekly Times shortly before News acquired it and at
one point proposing a Wapping-like plan to acquire Times Newspapers to the
Thomsons in 1979.  
  
But a perennial interest of Kerry was to return to the Sydney daily newspaper
market and at different times I worked on business plans to do that. But the
lock off the incumbents, especially Fairfax, had on the classifieds was too
strong, the cost of entry too high, the rivers of gold too distant for Kerry
to realise his dream.  
  
In many ways the great metropolitan newspapers were even more protected
against competition than the television licences - technology started to
threaten them first with rental videos, then DVDs, then Pay TV, but newspapers
seemed impregnable.  
  
That undoubtedly bred an attitude of complacency among proprietors - and of
course many opportunities in the new world was missed. The hardest thing for a
manager of any company to do is to cannibalise an existing revenue stream --
even as less experienced competitors are lining up to cannibalise it for them.  
  
As former Baltimore Sun reporter, David Simon, wrote, most newspapers simply
weren’t ready for the Internet when it came:  
  
“Which, exactly, is the proper epitaph for the generation that entered
newspapering at the very moment when the big-city dailies — the fat morning
papers, those that survived the shakeout of afternoon tabloids and other weak
sisters — seemed impervious, essential and ascendant? Were we the last
craftsmen prepared for a horse-and-buggy world soon to prostrate itself before
the god of internal combustion? Or were we assembly-line victims of the inert
monopolists of early 1970s Detroit, who thought that Pacers and Gremlins and
Chevy Vegas were response enough to Japanese and European automaking
superiority?”12  
  
But today newsrooms are looking more and more like Silicon Valley start-ups.
Never have the barriers to entry been so low for competitors and competition
so intense. Three of the top 10 news sites in Australia according to Nielsen
were not there three years ago - The Daily Mail, the Guardian and the BBC.
Competitors like The Huffington Post and Buzzfeed are competing against
traditional companies with no legacy infrastructure costs or liabilities. Our
media industry has not been so diverse or susceptible to change.  
  
One of the most common things you hear from pessimists about the future of
‘traditional’ media companies is that consumers are not willing to pay for
news in an online world. Received wisdom is that media companies were too late
in putting their paywalls up, that consumers have been trained to expect
things for free, that the sources of information in the online world are just
too abundant and that smaller, nimbler operations have targeted niche
audiences and have outmaneuvered larger, general news organisations. But media
companies are increasingly using new tools to deliver on their core mission
which is to inform, to entertain and to tell important stories. Consider, for
instance, the amazing multimedia package The Australian put together for its
50th anniversary; Trent Dalton’s series on the remote island Utopia for the
Weekend Australian combining beautiful writing and multimedia into a single
package13 or Fairfax’s decision to suspend its paywalls in October to cover
the NSW bushfires14.  
  
I have also enjoyed the Courier Mail’s front pages this year too -- though
they have not always been kind to the Government. We all talk about innovation
in journalism and it’s fair to say that perhaps no other profession has taken
as keenly to the introduction of photoshop - whether it be the Courier Mail
sending up Jacqui Lambie as Rambo this week, justifying life as a Queenslander
after the State of Origin loss or Wayne Swan as Eugène Delacroix’s Liberty
after his warnings that the budget could lead to insurrections similar to the
French Revolution. I hope it is no mere coincidence that the Mail’s
circulation figures were the best performing among all metropolitan and
national newspapers15.  
  
All of this has meant that traditional media companies are attracting more
eyeballs than ever. That is why the Newspaper Works is so important in telling
the industry’s story, particularly with its Enhanced Media Metrics Australia,
or EMMA, survey. It shows that people have never read our major publishers’
journalism more. This year print readership was down by 4 per cent but digital
readership was up by 11 per cent16. In June, the Sydney Morning Herald had a
total readership of 5.58 million, which is more than the population of the
greater Sydney region it notionally serves.  
  
Now it is broadly true that there is an unwillingness to pay for online news
content. Only 11 per cent of consumers surveyed in the U.S. and eight per cent
of consumers in the U.K. say they have paid for online news content in the
past year17. Another 11 per cent of consumers in the U.S. said they are
thinking about paying for online news content in the year ahead. In Australia,
the story is similar – only 8 per cent of people say they are willing to pay
for online news18. But then, there has always been an unwillingness to pay for
newspapers. Readership has always been higher than paid circulation –
currently each physical newspaper sold in Australia nonetheless passes through
3.5 sets of hands of people who read it19. People have always expected to read
the news for free to some extent - whether it be a spare newspaper lying
around at a cafe or at the office or at an airport. Despite the medium, there
is always going to be an engagement curve with readers. Some people will
access news online but never butt up against a paywall; some people will butt
up against a paywall but pay for access sporadically. Some people will buy
full digital subscriptions and opt for home delivery on a weekend. The
important thing is that no one strategy is likely to work, nor can each
customer be treated the same. There has been a huge amount of innovation when
it comes to different business models to capture more value out of each
segment of the market with three key trends standing out: the increasing
fragmentation and targeting of products; the success of pre-roll video
advertising and opportunities for mobile in general; and the continuing value
in print as a ‘premium’ product. Increasingly, the ‘all you can eat’ model for
paid subscriptions is giving way to smaller, more nimble products in much the
way that e-books and digital music have had to settle for price points that
consumers are comfortable with. So for instance, the New York Times has in
recent weeks launched two new apps, NYT Opinion and NYT Now, which cost just
$2 a week, which is cheaper than the US$15 a month for iPhone access and US$35
a month for full digital access.  
  
Interestingly, when it comes to willingness-to-pay, it is the digital natives
who are more likely to shell out for online news. In Australia, people aged
25-34 years of age are almost four times more likely to pay for online news
than those aged 45 to 54 years of age20.  
  
Even when customers don’t want to pay, publishers are getting better at
finding value. Companies like The Guardian, through its ‘Known’ project, are
asking customers to register their personal details21. Publishers are learning
from Google and others the wisdom of the old adage: “If, in the digital age,
the product is free, then you are the product”.  
  
Another great trend has been the rise of pre-roll video. We may grumble about
Google eating the world, but one of the upsides of those annoying YouTube ads
is that consumers are more willing to tolerate pre-roll video advertisements.
In the U.S., embedded video advertising doubled in the two years to 2013, now
accounting for $4.14 billion in industry revenue22. In Australia, it has
become one of the most effective forms of online advertising, with a third of
consumers saying it will affect their buying decisions23.  
  
And finally, it has to be acknowledged that there is still a great value in
print itself. One of my favourite sources for financial news about the
newspaper and media industry is Monday Note.  
  
Many of you will have heard me refer to an argument that one of the site’s
writers, Frédéric Filloux put forward that newspapers - and particularly
weekend newspapers - should seek to drastically raise their cover prices24.
The experience internationally has been that once you lose the least loyal
customers, the remaining market is quite inelastic when it comes to prices. I
take some small pride that as Communications Minister, at least someone in the
industry is listening to me -- both The Australian and the Sydney Morning
Herald have raised the cover prices by 30 cents to $3.30 on their weekend
editions.  
  
The fact is that print is still valued as an advertising platform and as a way
of reading the news. In Mary Meeker’s annual State of the Internet
presentation, she showed there is still a strong bias to print, with it
earning 19 per cent of industry revenue despite it taking just five per cent
of media consumption time25. As News Corporation’s Robert Thomson recently
said: “Print is a concentrated, intense reading experience with unique
affinity in our digitally distracted age”26.  
  
  
  
Implications for Government In our Boost Productivity and Reduce Regulation
policy we took to the Australian people during the election we set a target
across government of reducing regulatory costs to the economy by $1 billion
per annum. The current media, telecommunications and radiocommunications
regulatory framework is still based in a mid-1990s pre-Internet world of
relatively stable technologies and business models – a world where governments
and regulators were more worried that the rivers of gold didn’t converge than
they were about encouraging a torrent of innovation. The pressures on the
regulatory arrangements and the negative impact of out-dated regulation on the
industry will only increase. In May this year, I released a deregulation
roadmap setting out my deregulatory priorities for the communications sector.
We have made a positive start, achieving savings in the order of $30 million
dollars for media and telecommunications businesses during the government’s
first repeal day. Work is well underway for another layer of regulation to be
repealed, reduced or made simpler in time for the second repeal day scheduled
for late October. The roadmap also flagged that the Government recognises that
industry wants reform in a range of policy areas. These included the current
media ownership and control rules, the anti-siphoning scheme, retransmission
of commercial and national free-to-air services, and options for the use of
unassigned broadcasting spectrum. Many in the industry have asked me to look
at whether we still need platform specific media ownership rules. . At its
March 2014 meeting the broadcasting and media representatives on my
Ministerial Advisory Council were also in broad agreement that reform was
necessary, particularly where it could improve the economic stability of the
sector in an increasingly difficult environment. Now I first represented a
media company on a media regulation inquiry in 1977. So I have seen this film
before and I know that consensus ends where self-interest kicks in. But I am
in the process of holding focused discussions with senior executives in the
industry to test if consensus can be achieved on the various proposals that
have been put to me. With an agenda that includes rolling out the NBN,
reforming the public broadcasters and Australia post, e-government and the
promoting the digital economy I have explained to all the players that
consensus is always a good place to start from to achieve any change. It’s
fair to say that change is still on the agenda but it needs to carefully
balance two competing concerns – the need for diversity in our media industry
and to ensure that we have enough economically viable media businesses to make
that diversity possible. But let me remind you that there has been a change of
Government. I believe in working with the industry not against it. I believe
that given the massive increase in competition and diversity there should be
less regulation of the media sector not more and I certainly do not intend to
break with Australia’s peace time tradition and introduce Government
regulation of the content of your newspapers as the previous labor Government
attempted to do.  
  
Local News  
  
I’ve already stressed the importance of deregulation to this Government and
when it comes to the debate of media ownership, and the reach rule in
particular, there is a bit of controversy and ill-informed debate over local
content. Let me just reiterate that any changes to media ownership will not
affect the local content requirements that are a part of a radio or television
license. Everyone, the government included, is concerned that regional
communities around Australia have access to news, presented and written by
journalists who understand their area, their people and their issues. In an
ACMA report on local content 91 per cent of regional Australians said they
considered local content to be important, and again, 91 per cent of those
surveyed believed they had access to all the local content they would like. As
regional broadcasters and newspapers face increasing cost pressures, it’s
important that regional Australians have access to a variety of sources for
local news and information. Of those surveyed, 82 per cent said they got
access to what’s occurring locally by reading their local print newspaper at
least once a week, a higher usage rate than commercial radio (67 per cent),
local ABC radio and social media (63 per cent)27. Importantly, over 95 per
cent of regional Australians reported they would seek out local content, and
they access different sources for different purposes. For regional Australians
local newspapers are the preferred source for local sports and information
about community events, and the second most preferred source after television
for local news. Demonstrating that local print newspapers have a vital role to
play in providing Australians access to the information they want to read.
Local newspapers are not only important sources of local content, they are
important advocates for regional issues. In 2012 The Border Mail took out two
Walkley Awards, including the award for excellence in journalism, for their
‘Ending the Suicide Silence’ campaign. The week-long campaign was comprised of
features in The Border Mail, stories on mental health issues, and lobbying for
mental health services in the region, complemented by a Facebook page. The
innovative approach to this issue was not just about reporting local content,
but uniting and mobilising a community on an issue of critical importance. I
think it’s also important to acknowledge the work of another Walkley-winning
campaign and that is the Newcastle Herald’s ‘Shine the Light’ series on child
sex abuse in the Catholic Church which led to first a NSW judicial inquiry and
now a Federal royal commission. Journalist Joanne McCarthy’s commitment in the
face of threats, complaints and abuse was pivotal in uncovering what had been
hidden from the community for too long. Walking the fine line between advocacy
and journalism McCarthy confessed that she was a regional person and only a
regional paper could have done what the Newcastle Herald did because it went
well beyond what is normal behaviour for a metro28. Regional newspapers are
therefore not only an important source of local news and information, but a
vital part of the media landscape, pushing the boundaries, advocating for
change, and giving regional Australians a voice.  
  
Conclusion  
  
Newspapers have been - and still by and large are - the great foundations of
journalism and our democracy. Nearly all of what we read and see on the
television and hear on the radio are almost always the result of the original
journalism of our big publishers and the ABC. It is almost inconceivable to
think of the recent ICAC inquiries without the tireless work of journalists
like Kate McClymont; or the Health Services Union scandals without writers
like Brad Norrington.  
  
I gave a speech in 201229 expressing a genuine concern that the very
foundations of journalism, the most powerful organs of free speech, the great
newspapers themselves are struggling to survive. Those concerns are still
valid, but it is clear that in the last two years the industry has responded
to the challenge in an innovative manner that gives us every cause for
optimism about your future.  
  
The former editor of The Guardian in Australia Kath Viner defined our current
media age as one in which we’ve seen ‘the rise of the reader’30 putting at the
very centre of what media organisations do.  
  
Our politicians may come and go and in between complain bitterly about how
outrageously they were treated by our big media organisations; recognising
that complaining about the media is as useless as complaining about the media.  
  
But the truth is that challenges you face are important not just for your
shareholders and your staff, but for our democracy, our free society. We need
you to succeed, our freedoms depend on it.  
  
  
  
Thank you for your time today and good luck for the road ahead.  
  
ENDS  
  
  
  
Footnotes  
  
1\. News Limited launched news+ in June 2013 while Fairfax introduced its
paywall in July 2013. The Australian uses a mixed paywall.  
  
2\. Fairfax, (2014), “Annual Results Investor Briefing”, p.7, available online
at: http://storage.googleapis.com/fxj-corp-docs-public/2014-08-14_Full-
Year%20Results%20-%20Investor%20Briefing.pdf  
  
3\. Audited Media Association of Australia, (2014), “ABC Paid Media Audit,
June”  
  
4\. Robert Thomson, (2014), “Full Year Financial Results: Transcript”,
available online here.  
  
5\. Fairfax, (2014), “Annual Results Investor Briefing”, p.38, available
online at: http://storage.googleapis.com/fxj-corp-docs-public/2014-08-14_Full-
Year%20Results%20-%20Investor%20Briefing.pdf  
  
6\. New York Times Company, (2014), “Second Quarter Results”, available online
at: http://investors.nytco.com/investors/investor-news/investor-news-
details/2014/The-New-York-Times-Company-Reports-2014-Second-Quarter-
Results/default.aspx  
  
7\. PWC, (2014), “Revolution, Not Evolution: The Australian Entertainment and
Media Outlook 2014-18”.  
  
8\. Sydney Morning Herald, (2013), “Sydney Morning Herald Introduces Digital
Subscription”, available online here: http://www.smh.com.au/national/sydney-
morning-herald-introduces-digital-subscriptions-20130701-2p6nl.html  
  
9\. Davidson, D., (2013), “News Unveils Metered Digital Subscriptions Plan for
The Daily Telegraph and Herald Sun”, available online here:
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/media/print/news-unveils-metered-paywall-plan-
for-daily-telegraph-and-herald-sun/story-
fn9ymmvo-1226637384084?nk=b3383d18fb488f7dc0595bd28f410ed1  
  
10\. Nielsen, (2014), “Nielsen Online Ratings: June”.  
  
11\. Coll, S., (2014), “Citizen Bezos”, in the New York Review of Books,
available online here:
http://www.nybooks.com/articles/archives/2014/jul/10/citizen-bezos-amazon/  
  
12\. Simon, D., (2008), “Does the News Even Matter Any More?” available online
here: http://davidsimon.com/does-the-news-matter-to-anyone-anymore/  
  
13\. Dalton, C., (2014), “Welcome to Utopia”, available online here:
http://media.news.com.au/nnd/captivate/edenhope/#  
  
14\. Fairfax Media, (2013), “The Sydney Morning Herald and the Age Provide
Community With Free Online Coverage of NSW Bush Fires”, available online here.  
  
15\. The Courier Mail’s circulation fell by 2.4 percent in the June quarter
compared to the June quarter 2013. Source: Audited Media Association of
Australia, (2014), “ABC Paid Media Audit, June”  
  
16\. Newspaper Works, (2014), “EMMA Survey”  
  
17\. Reuters Institute, (2014), “Digital News Report”, p.56, available online
here:
https://reutersinstitute.politics.ox.ac.uk/sites/default/files/Reuters%20Institute%20Digital%20News%20Report%202014.pdf  
  
18\. Deloitte, (2014), “Media Consumer Survey”, available online here:
http://www.deloitte.com/au/mediaconsumer  
  
19\. Newspaper Works, (2014), “EMMA Survey”  
  
20\. 15 per cent compared to 4 per cent. Deloitte, (2014), “Media Consumer
Survey”, available online here: http://www.deloitte.com/au/mediaconsumer.
Additional information on demographic breakdowns provided by Deloitte.  
  
21\. Doctor, K., (2014), “The Newsonomics of The Guardian’s New ‘Known’
Strategy”, available online here: http://www.niemanlab.org/2014/02/the-
newsonomics-of-the-guardians-new-known-strategy/  
  
22\. Pew Research Center, (2014), “State of the News Media 2014: Paying for
News: The Revenue Picture for American Journalism and How It Is Changing”,
p.28, available online here: http://www.journalism.org/files/2014/03/Revnue-
Picture-for-American-Journalism.pdf  
  
23\. Deloitte, (2014), “Media Consumer Survey”, p.19 available online here:
http://www.deloitte.com/au/mediaconsumer  
  
24\. Filloux, F., (2012), “Why Newspapers Must Raise Their Price”, in Monday
Note available online here: http://www.mondaynote.com/2012/09/02/why-
newspapers-must-raise-their-price/  
  
25\. Meeker, M., (2014), “Internet Trends”, slide 15, available online here:
http://s3.amazonaws.com/kpcbweb/files/85/Internet_Trends_2014_vFINAL_-_05_28_14-_PDF.pdf?1401286773  
  
26\. Robert Thomson, (2014), “Full Year Financial Results: Transcript”,
available online here.  
  
27\. ACMA, (2014), “Regional Commercial Television Local Content Investigation
Report”, p.20  
  
28\. Knott, M., (2013), “Accidental crusader: how a regional reporter prompted
a royal commission”, published in Crikey, 28 March, available online here:
http://www.crikey.com.au/2013/03/28/accidental-crusader-how-a-regional-
reporter-prompted-a-royal-commission/  
  
29\. http://www.malcolmturnbull.com.au/media/free-at-last-or-freedom-lost-
liberty-in-the-digital-age-2012-alfred-deakin  
  
30\. Viner, K., (2013), “The Rise of the Reader: Journalism in the Age of the
Open Web”, available online:
http://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2013/oct/09/the-rise-of-the-reader-
katharine-viner-an-smith-lectureNAB Australia-China Business Week  
  
Sydney, 5 September 2014  
  
  
  
## Check Against Delivery ##  
  
The Prime Minister asked me to represent him today at this most important
conference. He sends his greetings and is sorry he cannot be with us today as
he is, as you know, in India.  
  
In the 12 months since taking office the Abbott Government has worked hard to
broaden and deepen our ties with China. Notably Prime Minister Tony Abbott led
a high profile delegation to Shanghai in April for Australia Week in China. He
was accompanied by Trade Minister Andrew Robb and Foreign Minister Julie
Bishop, five state premiers and a chief minister, and more than 700
representatives from Australian businesses and other organisations, including
many CEOs. He also attended the Boao Forum where he gave the keynote address
and met with the Australia/China Senior Business Leaders Forum. The current
focus of our economic relationship is progress towards a free trade agreement
with China. This week we have had a 20-strong negotiating team in Beijing for
the 21st formal round of negotiations on the FTA since John Howard first
floated the idea nine years ago.  
  
Finalising an agreement by the end of the year is still a realistic objective
and a very high priority of our Government. From Australia’s point of view, we
will continue to strive for the best possible deal on agriculture and access
to Chinese markets for Australian services.  
  
If agreed the Chinese FTA will have a big impact on our economy. Since the New
Zealand-China deal came into effect in late 2008, New Zealand’s share of
Chinese imports have tripled. This reflected a nine-fold increase in the value
of New Zealand milk-powder exports to China, a ten-fold increase in the value
of timber exports and a seven-fold increase in lamb and mutton exports1.  
  
Already, there are signs of the potential here, particularly for Australia’s
primary producers. A north coast farming cooperative, Norco, is already
exporting milk to Shanghai and attracting prices of around $9 a litre. It is
exporting 16,000 litres of milk a month to China; within 12 months it is
hoping to export around 20 million litres a year2.  
  
A free trade agreement would coincide with the broader shift to a services
based economy in China. In 2013, for the first time services accounted for the
biggest share of Chinese GDP at 46% with industry at 44% and agriculture 10%3.  
  
Not only will this result in more opportunities for Australian businesses, but
it will result in a different type of engagement. Rather than the multi-
billion dollar deals negotiated in the resources sector, transactions in the
agriculture and services sectors, for example, involve many more parties and
many more smaller transactions.  
  
Even more so than resource companies, they will need to have a much keener
sense of the Chinese market and a deeper affinity with Chinese culture and
business practices.  
  
To give you a sense of the opportunities here for small and medium
enterprises, the recent Australia Week in China - which was heavily backed by
our Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade - saw a raft of commercial deals
signed between Chinese and Australian companies, worth around AU$894 million
in value. They included Australian companies in sectors as diverse as meat,
dairy, medical technology, aged care, building and construction, education,
and financial services.  
  
Doing Business in China and Broadening the Relationship  
  
At a personal level I am proud to be part of a Government that is working hard
to improve and enlarge our relations with China. It was twenty years this
month that we established, with the Zhangjiakou City Government and the Hebei
Province Geological Bureau a contractual joint venture, Hebei HuaAo Mining
Industry Company Ltd, to explore and develop a promising lead zinc deposit at
Caijiaying near the town of Zhangbei in Hebei Province.  
  
That was the first sino-western joint mining venture in China, now listed in
London, and last year produced 788,000 tonnes of ore and 461 million RMB of
revenue employing 700 local people.  
  
Although it is a long time since I was a shareholder, I am very proud that we
were able to establish that mine - not simply because it was the first of its
type, but because it has contributed to the growth and prosperity of China,
bringing together Australian and Chinese expertise in every relevant field.
One of my colleagues at the time, geologist Dr Zhou Bo, is I am very pleased
to say still actively involved as a director of the project.  
  
Naturally this conference will focus on the Chinese economy, its growth
prospects and the impact on two way trade and investment. But too much of the
description, the appreciation, of our relationship is transactional, indeed
one-dimensional.  
  
As Consul General Li has reminded us, China is our largest export market,
accounting for 36 per cent of Australia’s exports in 2013. Iron ore accounted
for 55 per cent of those exports by value, while services - mainly in tourism
- accounted for around 7 per cent of exports. Chinese investment in Australia
is similarly weighted towards resources. In the six years to 2012, 79 per cent
of inbound Chinese investment was in mining, a further 12 per cent was in oil
and gas4.  
  
That’s enough for familiar statistics.  
  
Rather I want to talk about the deeper texture of our relationship, our shared
historical experience and the prospects for the future direction of the
relationship.  
  
Deeper People-to-People Links Australia has become, in just a generation or
two, the most diverse and successful multicultural nation in the world.  
  
In the 1950s, around 10 per cent of our population was born overseas; today
almost 28 per cent are5.  
  
Our most valuable natural resource in our country is not the minerals under
the ground, but the people who walk on top of it.  
  
Australia is not only more diverse than any other Western country, we have
almost a million people living in Australia who are of Chinese descent6 and
Mandarin is the most common language spoken outside of English7. More than
600,000 people in Australia speak Chinese at home compared to 2.8 million in
the U.S., a country of around 15 times our population8. The United Kingdom has
slightly more than 234,000 people who speak Chinese languages9. Although the
German census doesn’t count the number of foreign language speakers broken
down by language, they have around one Chinese born resident for every five in
Australia10.  
  
As I have written before11, the Chinese language is hard to learn. Its
ideographic writing system requires a formidable feat of memorisation to
achieve even basic literacy. But as Geoff Raby famously observed shortly
before he retired as Ambassador to China, proficiency in the Chinese language
does not always guarantee a good understanding of China or the Chinese.  
  
A deeper understanding of China history and culture is of enormous importance
in the further development of our relationship at a national and indeed at an
enterprise or personal level. Australia is one of the top destinations for
Chinese students, with around 150,000 of them currently enrolled at Australian
universities and other institutions. And thanks to the Government’s New
Colombo Plan, more Australians will be studying in China. Already 34 of our
universities have exchange agreements with institutions in China and China has
very quickly become the second most popular destination for our students
studying abroad12.  
  
History looms large as we reflect on centenary of World War I, the seventieth
anniversary of D Day and next year the centenary of the Gallipoli landings and
the seventieth anniversary of the end of the the second World War.  
  
And all too often, uneasily we turn the pages of those histories reflecting on
the similarities between those times and our own today.  
  
Australians pay close attention, naturally, to the history of the War in the
Pacific where Japan swept the British out of Malaya, the Dutch out of the East
Indies and the Americans out of the Philippines.  
  
Australia was under direct attack. Darwin was bombed, Sydney was shelled.
22,376 Australian were taken prisoner. More than a third of them did not
survive their captivity.  
  
Great Britain’s island fortress of Singapore was over run. The Royal Navy’s
Prince of Wales and Repulse were sunk.  
  
The Empire of Japan had driven the British Empire out of East Asia. Australia
was alone and looked to American for leadership and protection.  
  
And America did come to our aid and we have been the firmest of allies ever
since - an alliance bound by kinship, shared values and a long history of
loyalty, solidarity and courage.  
  
But there is one chapter in those histories which is all too often unread even
where it is written at all.  
  
For China the war with Japan had begun in 1937 and for four years she fought
alone. Japan had 680,000 troops in China at the time it launched its offensive
in the Pacific - four times the number it deployed to sweep through South East
Asia until they were stopped at our doorstep in the jungles of New Guinea13.  
  
Had China been defeated and become a collaborating puppet state, like Vichy
France, not only would Japan have been able to fling vastly greater resources
into the war against Australia, but it would have been able to invade Siberia
in 1942, as Hitler asked, when the Red Army was almost smashed by the Nazi
offensive in the West.  
  
We may not have succeeded in resisting Japanese aggression without the
tenacious heroism of our Chinese ally.  
  
The Soviet Union, reeling in the face of the blitzkrieg, may not have been
able to survive a two front war at its moment of greatest weakness.  
  
The central role of China as our ally in the Second World War is barely
remembered in Australia today. But it will never be forgotten in China.  
  
We should never forget that China’s war against Japan was not just their war,
but our war too - and without China we may not have won it at all.  
  
As a Government we are focussed on the opportunities in the Chinese
relationship and, as I have said, they go well beyond the commercial or
economic.  
  
But there are, naturally, risks to the outlook.  
  
Geopolitics  
  
Deng Xiaoping opened China to the world and began a process of liberalising
product markets. He was careful to focus on the main game - raising living
standards at home - and did not seek to disturb the strategic order in the
region. His policy was “hide your strengths, bide your time.”  
  
And for many years thereafter China was remarkably conciliatory in its
relations with neighbours. Most notably in 2004 it settled its border with
Russia and effectively ratified the seizure in the 19th century of vast areas
of Chinese territory by the Czars in the unequal treaties of Aigun and Peking.  
  
Since then, however, China has been disputing maritime territories with Japan
over the Diaoyu/Senkaku islands and with the ASEAN nations in the South China
Sea. I note that I make no judgement at all about the merits of those
competing claims. Our interest is simply in their peaceful resolution.  
  
A real risk is that an incident at sea escalates, drawing in the United States
with unpredictable consequences.  
  
In my view we should expect China to become more assertive in its own region.
It is, or shortly will be, the largest economy in the world. Its rise is to be
welcomed. But it is vitally in our and China’s interests that its rise is
peaceful.  
  
Many Chinese scholars have compared this muscular maritime diplomacy as
comparable to America’s declaration of the Monroe Doctrine in 1823 which
asserted that further European intervention in North or South America would be
resisted by the United States.  
  
It is not an apt comparison. East and South East Asia are not composed of
former colonies struggling to remain free, but includes many large and
powerful states, including Japan, with considerable economic and military
strength. They, like China, have all benefited from decades of a Pax
Americana.  
  
All policy must be judged by its outcome. If the objective of Chinese regional
diplomacy is to weaken American influence with the nations of the region, it
is not working.  
  
The counterproductive consequence has been to drive China’s neighbours not
only into increasing their defence spending but into closer alliance with the
United States.  
  
China’s better strategy would be one that builds trust with its neighbours and
settles disputes pragmatically, as it did with Russia in 2004.  
  
Another major risk to the outlook is the consequences of the long overdue
rebalancing of the Chinese economy being undertaken by President Xi Jinping.  
  
For many years China has practised a form of financial repression that has
transferred wealth from households to state owned enterprises, encouraged
property speculation and malinvestment, suppressed consumption and produced
growing income and social inequality.  
  
For lack of a better alternative Chinese households entrusted their savings to
state-controlled banks which returned negative real interest rates, and
proceeded to on-loan those deposits to state-owned enterprises, often engaged
in property development, at negligible, arguably negative, real interest
rates.  
  
This constituted a significant transfer of wealth from thrifty households to
all too often inefficient state owned businesses. . Michael Pettis has
estimated its magnitude at as much as 5 to 8 per cent of GDP annually.  
  
Just as cheap and abundant labour encourages firms to engage in labour-
intensive production, so the availability of what in real terms was ‘free’
money exaggerated incentives to invest. If funds can be borrowed from friendly
bank managers at rates well below the nominal growth in GDP, almost any
project passes muster.There is abundant evidence of malinvestment in property
and infrastructure - the inevitable consequence of free money.  
  
As research by Anne Stevenson-Yang from J-Capital research shows in the five
years to 2012, China added 5.9 billion square metres of commercial floorspace,
which is the equivalent of 50 Manhattans. To put the Chinese real estate
construction boom in perspective, in 2012 China built around 20 million units,
or around 2 billion square metres of residential floor space; at its peak the
U.S. built 2 million homes a year14. As Bill Gates recently blogged, China
used more cement in the three years to 2013 than the U.S. used in the entire
20th Century15.  
  
Reform Is Taking Place  
  
The good news however is that after many years of the Chinese Government
declaring it would do something about this financial repression, reform, under
Xi, is finally happening. The official lending rate has risen to 7.5% and just
as importantly nominal GDP growth has dropped to under 8% in the first quarter
of this year.  
  
China will see slower growth, but with higher real interest rates the growth
that does continue will be focused on a more productive use of resources.  
  
There is considerable concern (we need look no further than today’s Financial
Review), about the impact of slower growth in investment will have on demand
for iron ore and coal. Both commodities are at five year lows. Coal also faces
the consequence of China aggressively moving to cleaner sources of energy -
many analysts argue China will shortly cease to be a net importer of thermal
coal.  
  
The challenge for the political leadership is how to ensure that household
income and consumption can grow faster than GDP, with the consequence that
there will be slower growth in investment and especially construction activity
but do so without unacceptable increases in unemployment.  
  
A Chinese economy with a higher share of consumption (say 50% plus ) will have
a larger services sector which is, of course, much more labour intensive than
the capital intensive heavy industries and infrastructure projects which have
been so advantaged in the past.  
  
This re-balancing is being supported by wage growth; whether China has passed
the Lewis turning point or not, the endless supply of cheap labour from the
countryside is both diminishing and proving less suitable for the higher
skills required in a more sophisticated economy with a greater share of
services.  
  
There seem to be two views on China’s prospects. One holds that there will be
a medium term slower rate of investment especially in property, and hence
demand for iron ore and coal, but that because of the rapid rate of
urbanisation, with a quarter of a billion people expected to move to the
cities over the next twenty years, the excess property inventory will be taken
up.  
  
Another holds that there will be, and needs to be, a much more significant
pull back in investment not least because as financial repression winds down
investors will have to find projects that deliver real commercial returns.  
  
The deflation of the property bubble is already seeing big falls in property
prices across China, especially in second tier cities where there is less
prospect of excess inventory being taken up. This rebalancing, while
necessary, has its own wealth effect - negative impact on household spending,
offsetting at least for a time the policy objective of increasing consumption
as a share of GDP.  
  
Either way it underlines the need for us to to think of China less as a
destination for bulk commodities - coal, gas and iron ore - and more as a
sophisticated market for high quality, differentiated services - education,
architecture, design, legal and financial services and technical services
among many others.  
  
Among these shifts, Australia can and should be at the forefront of this
transition and can be a huge potential beneficiary of the new Chinese economy.  
  
That is why the shift towards a services economy has been a major focus of the
proposed Free Trade Agreement.  
  
Another feature where Australia in general - and Sydney as a hub of finance -
can be an early mover is in the internationalisation of the renminbi. As my
colleague, Treasurer Joe Hockey, announced earlier this year, our countries’
respective central banks are working to ensure we have an offshore RMB
clearing house located here in Sydney, a recognition of the increase in direct
trades between the two currencies16. Conclusion  
  
The recognition by Chinese policy makers of the need for reform,the
liberalisation of currency controls and domestic finance, the rise of a
Chinese middle class, the shift from investment led growth to one based on
consumption are all indications that the story of China’s growth still has a
long way to go.  
  
Australian governments and businesses will need to be agile and innovative
with the empathy to know that your “same bed” companion has “different
dreams”, the imagination to know what they might be and the wisdom to know
that you will be together for a very long time.  
  
  
  
Footnotes  
  
1 Quoted in Eslake, S., & Joiner, A., (2014), “A Trio of Free Trade Deals”,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch, pp.9-11  
  
2 Lynch, J., (2014), “Who’s Buying Milk for $9 a Litre?”, in the Australian
Financial Review, available online:
http://www.afr.com/p/business/companies/who_buying_milk_for_litre_rZ3idyq8Vc0Cnsh0arYKvN  
  
3 WEF, (2014), “China Update: June 2014”, p.3  
  
4 KPMG & University of Sydney China Studies Centre (2012) ‘Demystifying
Chinese Investment: China’s Outbound Direct Investment in Australia,’ August
2012 update, pp.5-6.  
  
5 ABS, (2013), “Australia’s Population By Country of Birth”  
  
6 ABS, (2012), “Cultural Diversity in Australia”, available online here:
http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/Lookup/2071.0main+features902012-2013  
  
7 ABS, (2013), “Australian Social Trends”, available online here:
http://www.abs.gov.au/AUSSTATS/abs@.nsf/Lookup/4102.0Main+Features30April+2013  
  
8 U.S. Census Bureau, (2012), “Language Use in the United States: 2011”,
available online here: http://www.census.gov/prod/2013pubs/acs-22.pdf  
  
9 Office for National Statistics, (2011), “Census”,available online here.
Statistics for Scotland’s census are available online here. Official
statistics on foreign languages spoken vary slightly on what they measure. For
the USA it refers to those 5 years and over and what language is spoken at
home. In the UK it refers to those aged three years and over and the main
language spoken. In Australia it refers to all persons and language spoken at
home.  
  
10 Statistisches Bundesamt, (2013), “Ausländische Bevölkerung”  
  
11 See for instance, my blog online here:
http://www.malcolmturnbull.com.au/media/the-asian-century-and-learning-
chinese-in-school  
  
12 Bishop, J., (2014), “Australia in China’s century”, available online here:
http://www.foreignminister.gov.au/speeches/Pages/2014/jb_sp_140530.aspx?ministerid=4  
  
13 Beevor, A., (2012), The Second World War. 14 Stephenson-Yang, A., (2014),
“Consumer Call”  
  
15 Gates, B., (2014), “Have You Hugged a Concrete Pillar Today”, available
online here: http://www.gatesnotes.com/Books/Making-the-Modern-World  
  
16 Hockey, J., (2014), “Deepening Financial Ties with China”, available online
here: http://jbh.ministers.treasury.gov.au/media-release/014-2014/KEYNOTE ADDRESS  
  
ACMA - RadComms 2014 Conference  
  
Australian National Maritime Museum, Sydney  
  
Wednesday 10 September 2014  
  
\------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  
  
Introduction  
  
It is hard to go anywhere without being reminded about the history of
communications. Consider the semaphore flags here at the Maritime Museum - a
relic of a bygone age for most of us here today. They are derivatives of the
first system of semaphore communications devised by Parisian engineer, Claude
Chappe in 1792. At the time they were first used they were considered so
revolutionary, contemporaries likened them to the compass, the printing press
and gunpowder[1]. For the first time, it meant the Government could send a
detailed message from Paris to Bordeaux in less than a day.  
  
In my youth I was fairly continuously involved with the broadcasting industry.
First as a television reporter and then for years as a lawyer representing the
Packer interests and later as a banker buying, selling and restructuring
television and other media businesses.  
  
My last television transaction was the restructure and later sale of the Ten
Network after it went into receivership, nearly twenty five years ago.  
  
It was back then, in 1992, that the current Radiocommunications framework was
introduced. It led the world in how it dealt with the complexities of spectrum
management.  
  
But the introduction of the current framework coincided with a revolutionary
moment in telecommunications. In 1993, Telstra launched its first GSM network
and Optus and Vodafone followed suit later that year[2]. Like Chappe’s
semaphore line, GSM was a totally new way to communicate. Rather than sending
messages using analogue signals, GSM was the first mobile technology to use
digital transmission.  
  
It’s worth thinking about some of the implications of that - because these are
things that policymakers 20 years ago could not have considered.  
  
First, when you’re sending a digital signal everything looks the same -- no
matter whether you’re transmitting an SMS or a high-definition video stream,
you’re transmitting a series of 1s and 0s. This means as we move towards a
fully digital world, there will be less need for Governments to create complex
spectrum allocation charts to make sure one analogue service does not
interfere with another. Think about this: Under the current framework, there
are 200 spectrum regulatory instruments in place and up to a third of these
describe the different licence types.  
  
Secondly, a great attribute of digital signals is that amid all the 1s and 0s,
you can detect patterns and further compress the amount of information you
send.  
  
Once you have a block of spectrum, advances in compression technologies mean
you can deliver ever more data over it. In the recent Cost-Benefit Analysis on
the NBN that I released a fortnight ago, it included a study by Communications
Chambers in the U.K. that gives some indication of how transformational some
of these compression technologies have been, with efficiency gains of around
10 per cent a year[3].  
  
This means a chunk of spectrum allocated today could be used for ever more
services tomorrow. Consider the explosion in the data sent over our mobile
phone networks; during the two years to 2013 smartphone penetration has
increased by around 34 per cent, and data downloads by smartphones has
increased by 453 per cent[4].  
  
As FCC chairman Tom Wheeler recently said:  
  
“Slavishly sticking to analog age concepts of spectrum allocation can become,
in the digital age, a government-imposed chokepoint that burdens competition
and innovation by creating unnecessary and artificial scarcity of this
essential resource.”[5]  
  
Finally, digital transmission means that services can be delivered using
common infrastructure - such as our mobile, fixed line broadband and cable
networks - rather than having to build bespoke analogue transmission networks.
IP over everything and everything over IP. Of course there are other
contributors to the high cost base of broadcasting such as acquiring access to
content and control of the advertising market. Nonetheless, this shift has had
a profound impact on the economics of pretty much every industry that uses
spectrum, but in particular for our broadcasters.  
  
For nearly forty years free to air television licensees had a monopoly on the
delivery of television to the home. Some described them as a licence to print
money, but that wasn't always true as TEN proved in 1990 when it went into
receivership and there was a time when many industry wiseacres argued that
there was not enough advertising revenue to support more than two commercial
broadcasters.  
  
We proved that wrong. With the help of Cass O'Connor and a great CEO in Gary
Rice, we restructured TEN with a mean lean cost base that enabled it to be a
ratings laggard but a profits leader. I recall that restructuring was designed
on large sheets of butchers paper with every division and cost centre
carefully itemised and all laid out on our kitchen table in Paddington.  
  
And yet, since the introduction of digital television, there are 17 channels
on five broadcasters -- all of them free to the the around 13.5 million
Australians who watch each day. And people have more access to content online
than ever before. As of May 2013 there were 7.9 million people in Australia
using professional content services over the Internet such as catch-up TV,
video on demand and IPTV[6].  
  
Demand for broadcast radio also remains very high and there is no doubt that
radio will continue to play a key role in Australia’s media landscape, but it
is interesting to see the growth in streamed radio over the net - from 4.5 per
cent in 2009 to 8.1 per cent as at June 2013.  
  
And in addition to that of course we have hundreds of pay channels, on Foxtel
and other services delivered by satellite and increasingly over the Internet -
over the top. And then there is Youtube!  
  
In other words there is more competition, more innovation, more disruptive
dynamic change than ever before. It means the cost of Government regulation
has never been greater; both because it inhibits new business models from
prospering and forces unnecessary costs on the incumbents when their
profitability is under increasing pressure.  
  
For these reasons, the Government is looking hard at how we allocate spectrum
and how this scarce public resource can be used most efficiently.  
  
In May, I launched the first review of the use of public spectrum in Australia
in more than a decade[7]. Specifically, the review is examining:  
  
● How markets that make use of spectrum have developed since the 1992
Radiocommunications Act was introduced  
  
● What elements of the regime have served us well, and what have not, and;  
  
● What needs to change so that we have an effective and efficient framework
for future technologies to flourish.  
  
The endpoint of this review is to create a framework that allows spectrum to
be allocated and used efficiently over the short, medium and long term.  
  
If this is achieved then the framework will recognise continued rapid
technological change; promote investment; accommodate a range of different
uses and incentivise transformations.  
  
Processes  
  
As I mentioned there are more than 200 Australian regulatory instruments in
place that deal with spectrum matters.  
  
Converting and reallocating spectrum between licence types is an unnecessarily
lengthy process and renewal processes for spectrum licences are difficult and
can lead to uncertainty for users.  
  
It took seven years to release the digital dividend and three years to
conclude the policy elements of the 15 year spectrum licence re-issue process,
with the ACMA assessment of use and the actual re-issue of licences on top of
that.  
  
Our arrangements need to be simpler and more flexible.  
  
Whilst we have commenced work through the Government’s deregulation agenda on
repealing and winding back various licence conditions, the spectrum review is
key to improved processes and reduced regulation in the spectrum management
space.  
  
Outcomes  
  
The economic benefits to the country of having an efficient spectrum
management framework are immense. A study commissioned by the ACMA found that
in the six years to 2013, mobile broadband alone contributed more than $33
billion to Australia’s GDP[8]. The recent Cost Benefit Analysis into the NBN
showed how much the public benefits of broadband are the result of low
bandwidth applications, which are being deployed increasingly over radio
spectrum[9]. Emergency health care monitoring for instance, requires bandwidth
of 1 mbps; school of the air needs between 2 and 24 mbps; smart grids require
1 mbps.  
  
An economy wide study on the economic value of radio spectrum in the U.K.
found that it added AUD$90 billion a year (£52 billion) to their GDP, in
2011[10].  
  
Since 2006, the economic value of public spectrum in the U.K. has seen a real
increase of 25 per cent. But some sectors use of spectrum has seen higher
growth than others. The highest growth in value has been in the spectrum used
by television broadcasters. The use of microwave links has decreased in
economic value, presumably as telcos have built out their transit networks
with fibre links.  
  
Efficiency in the management of radio spectrum will be enhanced by further use
of market mechanisms and Australia has been a leader in this area as an early
adopter of auctions to allocate spectrum and permitting the trading and
leasing of spectrum and apparatus licences.  
  
But there is more that can be done. All users - whether telecommunications
providers, broadcasters, public sector users and so on - must be given
incentives to make efficient use of the spectrum, for example through use of
appropriate pricing.  
  
We can drive further efficiency by encouraging greater trading and leasing of
spectrum, facilitating the movement of spectrum for new uses, and by providing
the flexibility and incentives for users to upgrade to more efficient
technologies.  
  
There are two important points:  
  
● The first is that for markets to work well the people investing need
certainty about regulatory arrangements and spectrum access terms and
conditions.  
  
● The second is that Government should retain the right to intervene to make
spectrum available for public and community services and for other uses where
there is a clear public benefit that would not otherwise be met – this should
occur in a transparent framework including in relation to value and benefits
of that spectrum.  
  
International developments  
  
There are a number of interesting trends and developments in spectrum
management taking place internationally that can inform the development of a
new Australian framework.  
  
We should be ready to learn from the experience of other jurisdictions where
they are dealing with common policy challenges in comparable circumstances.  
  
In March this year the UK government released its Spectrum Strategy[11]. It
put forward a number of initiatives with the goal of growing the value of
spectrum’s contribution to its economy and society including by:  
  
● Setting a vision to double spectrum’s annual contribution to the economy by
2025;  
  
● Making the most of globally agreed changes in use such as those supporting
mobile broadband to ensure harmonisation with other jurisdictions;  
  
● Not discriminating against or favouring one sector or another when it comes
to the use of spectrum; and  
  
● Encouraging innovation through sharing arrangements.  
  
The OECD also published a paper in May which set out new approaches to
spectrum management including valuing spectrum’s economic contribution,
facilitating shared use of spectrum and the use of incentive auctions to
assist in managing changes of use.  
  
The report showed that there is huge value in spectrum harmonisation among
regional blocs. The OECD pointed out that the ACMA has been leading the way in
the Asia Pacific with its 700Mhz band plan. The recent digital dividend saw 60
MHz of spectrum in the 700 MHz band and 140 MHz of spectrum from the 2.5GHz
band redeployed and sold, for a dividend of almost $2 billion. Spectral
efficiency and harmonisation have obvious economic benefits. The OECD report
points out that over 20 countries in the region are now adopting parts of the
ACMA plan to maximise harmonisation efforts, including New Zealand, Japan,
Indonesia and India[12].  
  
Policy Proposals  
  
I am outlining today three areas of potential reform that should be considered
as part of the spectrum review and related reforms.  
  
The first is to create a clearer and simplified policy framework to ensure
transparency and accountability in decision-making.  
  
Throughout the year, I have been in detailed discussions with the industry,
both informally and through my Ministerial Advisory Council. I know that as
the demand to deliver ever more services over spectrum increases, supply
tightens and so does the tension between existing users of spectrum.  
  
Most of the industry wants to see a clear division in the way spectrum is
planned, allocated and managed. Where decisions have significant public policy
implications, these should remain in the hands of the Minister and the
parliament. Where there are issues requiring technical, planning and
enforcement expertise they should be left with the regulator.  
  
In response to this I propose that the framework would include Government
policy statements being issued to the ACMA, as well as specific powers of
Ministerial intervention to direct major policy initiatives. This should
improve certainty, streamline processes and reduce costs for all parties.  
  
To support the policy process the Minister would be assisted by a requirement
that the ACMA provide to the Minister an annual work program, to be made
public, identifying key priorities over a 3-5 year timeframe. This arrangement
would allow the Minister to indicate which processes are likely to be of
interest to the Government and to request further information or become
actively involved where it would be in the public interest.  
  
The second proposal I want to explore with industry is moving to a single
licensing framework where there is flexibility available on licence
parameters.  
  
In effect the current categories of spectrum, apparatus and class licensing
would be removed and replaced with a single category.  
  
Some core conditions may be provided in legislation or communicated to ACMA
through Government policy statements, such as a maximum licence term and
renewal arrangements – but the intent is for the licensing framework to be
more flexible.  
  
This has the potential to simplify processes and provide much greater
flexibility and choice for users, as well as improve efficiency. The
legislated categories will no longer be an impediment to innovative new use of
spectrum.  
  
Earlier I mentioned the high number of spectrum regulatory instruments,
particularly in regards to different licence types. Switching between licence
categories also requires specific instruments. Moving to a single licensing
framework is likely to remove or significantly reduce the need for such
regulation.  
  
The third proposal relates to television broadcasting  
  
Australians enjoy a wide range of free-to-air television services,
particularly following the switch to digital television. Anti-siphoning rules
ensure that our most important and iconic sporting events are free for anyone
to watch, not just those who can afford a pay TV subscription. This is one of
the great things about living in Australia and it’s available to everyone.  
  
So free-to-air television, both commercial and national, remains an important
part of the Australian media landscape and while change is a constant in the
world of linear television, the Government considers it important to continue
to reserve spectrum for these services.  
  
But with the completion of the digital switchover, advances in compression
standards and Australians increasingly accessing content that doesn’t require
spectrum - such as cable and over-the-top services via the internet - the
Government considers that it is timely to recast the current broadcasting
spectrum policy framework to ensure it is fit-for-purpose for the next wave of
innovation in the media sector.  
  
So in line with the spectrum review a future broadcasting spectrum framework
should consider the following elements:  
  
The Government would retain the current restriction on the number of
commercial television licences that can be allocated for the one licence area.  
  
Commercial and national broadcasters would be increasingly permitted to use
spectrum more flexibly and allow third party access to their spectrum.  
  
The Government would not constrain the type of services broadcasters offer
apart from retaining the restriction on subscription television services.  
  
Broadcasters should be free to determine the most appropriate mix of services
and formats for their audience accordingly the Government would not mandate
that commercial and national broadcasters provide minimum numbers of multi-
channels or minimum levels of high definition content.  
  
We are also keen to encourage commercial and national broadcasters to commence
their transition to MPEG-4 only broadcasting, with the aim that every service
would move to an MPEG-4 standard. The Government expects that a transition
such as this would be industry managed.  
  
MPEG-4 uses spectrum much more efficiently and would allow broadcasters to use
their existing spectrum to deliver more channels and content including in
relatively bandwidth hungry formats such as high definition if they choose to
do so.  
  
In the short term, to allow for this transition to MPEG-4, the Government
intends to free up the spectrum known as the sixth channel to assist in the
testing and migration to this more efficient technology.  
  
The sixth channel remains substantially vacant but is currently being used by
community television in some state capitals. The Government believes that the
best outcome for community television is that in future it uses the Internet
as its distribution platform. To allow for this the Government will extend
current licensing arrangements until the 31st of December 2015.  
  
I have no doubt that this transition is in the best interests of community
television. It will deliver wider audiences, at less cost on a wider range of
devices and the ability to do more than linear broadcasting. Some community
television representatives, acknowledging that the Internet is their ultimate
home, have nonetheless argued that they should not be "rushed into the new
media world". The Internet is not new. It is the universal uber-platform to
which most people in Australia are connected 24/7.  
  
The spectrum review will now consider whether the sixth channel spectrum will
be replanned for alternative non-broadcasting uses, perhaps as the basis for a
second digital dividend.  
  
Finally, following a move to an MPEG-4 standard, in order to continue our
drive to achieve maximum spectrum efficiency the Government will encourage
spectrum sharing between television broadcasters. We expect the national
broadcasters to lead the way in this regard, with the commercials to follow.  
  
Conclusion  
  
The spectrum management framework has over time developed and shifted to meet
changing circumstances and has served Australia well.  
  
But given the pace of technological change we need to look at a new approach.
The spectrum review is an opportunity for you all to bring forward proposals
and be involved in setting the direction for the future.  
  
The proposals that I have outlined to you today clearly signal that the
government is looking for innovative and substantial reforms to our spectrum
management framework.  
  
Given the fundamental role that spectrum will play in the development of an
innovative and productive digital and networked economy it is vital that all
stakeholders make the most opportunity that the spectrum review presents.  
  
To progress the policy development process my Department will release a
Spectrum Review Directions paper in October setting out a range of possible
reform measures and will follow this with a stakeholder workshop before the
end of the year. The Department will also shortly be releasing a separate
discussion paper to seek the industry's views on future arrangements for
television broadcasting spectrum  
  
I trust that as an industry and as individual firms that you will take up the
challenge that the review presents and bring forward proposals to ensure that
we have a future ready spectrum management framework.  
  
Thank you.have drawn down 46 per cent of its total available equity by June 2015 (when
the rollout is estimated to extend to only 10 to 12 per cent of premises).  
  
Several other operational areas continue to be of concern to the Government:  
  
● Integration of the various multi-technology access technologies and products
with NBN Co’s BSS/OSS systems has not yet been achieved. This is an area that
needs to be watched.  
  
● NBN Co’s customer ratings remain poor due to issues such as missed
appointments, lengthy waits for new service and inability to activate service
on the day.  
  
● There are question marks over BSS/OSS scalability and the scalability of
customer-facing functions such as service activation. Both need to ramp up to
four or five times current volumes by 2015-2016, as customer acquisition
accelerates.  
  
● There is no evidence FTTP or fixed wireless costs per premise are declining.  
  
● The timetables for finalising amendments to the Telstra DAs and the Optus
HFC agreement remain a risk, and may be complicated by adverse decisions from
the ACCC.  
  
Beyond execution risks, which could be thought of as tactical in nature, are
the structural risks I touched upon earlier which are more strategic - that
is, grounded in the changed industry structure and whole-sale only model of
NBN Co that accompany the rollout.  
  
The fundamental issue is that the NBN as conceived by Labor – a wholesale-only
open access network, built from scratch by a taxpayer-funded start-up,
offering a high basic service at uniform national prices, and committed to
burdensome financial obligations entered under Labor – is not able to earn
genuine commercial returns.  
  
While the financial projections in the Strategic Review assumed a much less
generous revenue outlook for NBN Co than Labor’s Corporate Plans, they still
indicated that if the project was built within the estimated budget envelope,
it would earn a positive return.  
  
Given the magnitude of the sums committed to by Labor under the DAs, however,
the economics are always going to be challenging. This is exacerbated by the
high cost of Labor’s non-FTTP capex commitments (especially to IT systems,
fixed wireless, transit and satellite) and the recent ‘discovery’ of more
users in regional Australia than originally forecast, all of whom have been
promised a 25 Megabit per second basic service. The more customers in these
areas, the harder it will become to deliver this service level without costs
blowing out.  
  
There are two final risks I want to briefly note.  
  
The first is around technology and competition. While fibre fanatics love to
scoff at anyone who dares suggest wireless will ever be competitive with fixed
line access, the work of Clay Christiansen tells us (if we had not worked it
out already) that often a ‘good-enough’ offering beats a technically more
advanced offering because of lower cost and greater convenience. Wireless may
prove a formidable competitor, perhaps sooner than expected – which speaks to
the value in avoiding laying too many costly FTTP fibre lead-ins to users who
don’t really need them.  
  
Of course wireless will also potentially present opportunities for NBN Co, if
it becomes a backhaul provider to owners of distributed small cell networks.  
  
Last of all, there are risks to the NBN from inflated political and public
expectations.  
  
Fast broadband provides very large benefits for the economy and society, but
it is a travesty that Labor deliberately conflated access to fast broadband
with fibre, and was so irresponsible in exaggerating the impact of the NBN on
people’s lives.  
  
Sometimes I fear that every mayor in Australia thinks the project will turn
their town into Silicon Valley. People with perfectly good broadband
connections today – for example over HFC - have been brainwashed to believe
that their world will be changed forever if they get fibre to the premises.  
  
Yet the truth is that for the 50 or 60 per cent or so of Australians with good
broadband today, the NBN will often be indistinguishable from what they
already have assuming their current line speeds are sufficient to run the
applications they need and value. They’ll wonder what all the fuss was about –
and why the NBN is costing so much and taking so long.  
  
Let me conclude on that sombre note. Bringing a sense of reality to a
beautiful dream is never going to invite popularity, and many people remain
incensed that we’ve killed that dream to save a mere $30 or $40 billion.  
  
On the other side of the argument are people who say the project should have
been shut down. Leaving aside the political dimension, we were satisfied that
the cost of shutting it down was at least $15 billion and likely quite a bit
more.  
  
But I’m confident that everything we’ve seen so far tells us the Coalition's
strategy is the right one and that we have the right team in place.  
  
Anybody who argues otherwise would do well to consider the elevated level of
risk that is still inherent in the NBN even after all of our work and the work
of Bill Morrow and his team.  
  
[1] Parliament of Australia, Senate Economics Committee – ‘Performance of the
Australian Securities & Investments Commission’ – Canberra, June 2014, p.449.  
  
[2] Online at: http://www.deloitte.com/assets/Dcom-
Australia/Local%20Assets/Documents/news-
research/Building%20the%20lucky%20country/Deloitte_Digital_Disruption_Whitepaper_Sep2012.pdf  
  
[3] Online at:  
  
http://www.deloitte.com/view/en_AU/au/news-research/luckycountry/digital-
disruption/index.htm  
  
[4] Australia Post – FY2014 Financial Results - Online at:
http://auspost.com.au/about-us/australia-post-fy14-financial-results.html  
  
[5] NBN Co – NBN Co Strategic Review – Dec 2013, pp.38-40. Note the blowout in
required funding is $34 billion (or 77 per cent) if the original forecast and
post-election revised outlook use the same 20 per cent capex contingency
reserve.Good morning. It is a pleasure to be here.  
  
Thank you to both Jason Yetton and Phil Coffey for your introduction and for
inviting me here to speak this morning.  
  
Introduction  
  
At the risk of sounding cynical, it is easy when reflecting on the changes to
Australia’s education policy over the last decade to be reminded of Prince
Tancredi's observation in The Leopard, Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa’s great
novel on 19th Century Sicilian life: ‘if we want things to stay the same,
everything must change’.  
  
Too frequently education policy makers have sought to reinvent curricula by
adding more and more courses and giving existing courses increasingly exotic
names. But what has this actually achieved? A level of confusion, certainly.
For instance, what does ‘digital technologies’ actually mean and what is the
difference between design and digital technologies when it comes to the
Australian curriculum?  
  
As Phil Callil recently pointed out in his review of the technologies
curriculum, the term digital technologies is not well known in the education
systems of Canada, Finland, Singapore or the UK - not to mention the IT
industry itself.  
  
A second, and perhaps more important question to ask is, have educational
outcomes actually improved? If we turn to international performance tables
such as PISA (Programme for International Student Assessment) and TIMMS
(Trends in International Mathematics and Science) it is clear that we need to
improve educational outcomes across both the ICT and broader STEM disciplines.  
  
To remain competitive in an increasingly interconnected world we need to
ensure that the curriculum equips students for the jobs of tomorrow. We need
to consider where future employment demand will come from and the skills
school leavers will need to compete in a world that has been transformed by
the Internet - where nearly every industry is now trade exposed.  
  
This increased competition presents both greater challenges and greater
opportunities. Many new jobs will be created, many will be destroyed. The key
for us as a nation, and for each of us as individuals and especially as
parents, is to ensure that here in Australia we are, in net terms, creating
new jobs and new businesses and new opportunities.  
  
If we do not, if we do not become more competitive, then we cannot remain the
high wage economy we are with a generous social welfare safety net.  
  
The key to all of this, of course, is that our education curriculum must equip
students with the skills to take advantage of these opportunities. This means
that we need to move beyond teaching students how to consume technology and
instead focus on the creation of technology.  
  
With the current rate of technology adoption in Australia, very few primary
school aged children, even at five or six, have not learnt the basics of how
to use their parents’ tablet or smartphone. So instead of teaching students
how to be passive consumers of technology or how to use Microsoft Word or
other proprietary software, our educators should be teaching students how to
create, how to code.  
  
As Barack Obama recently observed to young students in America: ‘Don’t just
download the latest app, help design it. Don’t just play on your phone,
program it’.  
  
The Australian curriculum review  
  
To this end, the first year of the Abbott Government has been a significant
one for Australia’s education policy. Christopher Pyne is working to make the
curriculum, particularly in the primary years, simpler and less crowded. Last
week he released the Government’s review of the Australian curriculum that in
many ways is all about getting back to basics - a curriculum that is less
cluttered and more balanced with a greater emphasis on literacy and numeracy.  
  
While the review has been met with broad support, specialists in the
technology sector have raised very real concerns that ICT has been overlooked.
The Australian Computer Society, for example, has warned that any delay to the
teaching of coding would put students at a significant disadvantage from their
peers in the UK, while others have compared the importance of coding to that
of literacy and numeracy.  
  
Now let me clarify a very important point: while I am certainly not suggesting
that the authors of the curriculum review, Dr Kevin Donnelly and Professor Ken
Wiltshire would agree with many that machine language and logic should be, for
primary school students, an essential enabling skill like literacy and
numeracy, neither have those authors suggested that important IT skills such
as coding could not be incorporated into other areas of the ‘back to basics’
primary school curriculum.  
  
Teaching students how to code - to use computers to create rather than just
consume - from Foundation through to Year 8 could be appropriately
incorporated into the mathematics syllabus, for example. A leader in this area
is the Australian Mathematics Trust based in Canberra. I commend you to the
work they are doing in informatics, a mathematics discipline, where students
learn the basic algorithms, data structures and computational techniques that
underlie information and communication, and demonstrate their learning through
computer programming tasks.  
  
It is also important to distinguish the recommendations of Phil Callil - the
subject matter specialist engaged to review the technologies curriculum - from
the review’s broader recommendations. Callil determined that key ICT skills
taught as part of the digital technologies syllabus, such as coding and
computational thinking, should be taught from Foundation to Year 10. I agree
with him and agree that machine languages and logic are and certainly will be
in the future almost as important as basic literacy and numeracy.  
  
Regardless as to whether the ICT or digital technologies syllabus - as it is
currently known - remains as a standalone subject or is incorporated into
another syllabus such as maths, we need to ensure that:  
  
The current situation - declining participation in ICT  
  
Australia’s Chief Scientist, Professor Ian Chubb made the point in his recent
paper, Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics: Australia’s Future,
that about half of all US economic growth in the last 50 years came from
scientific and technological advances.[9]  
  
But alarmingly in Australia, when it comes to ICT and STEM - the disciplines
that will equip Australians with the skills to replicate the American
experience - participation in the latter school years and at university
continues to decline.  
  
This is despite significant growth in employer demand, particularly from
outside the traditional ICT sector, for graduates with training in computer
science and related disciplines such as data and information management.  
  
Consider for a moment the example of the marketing industry, which is becoming
increasingly reliant on the use of data to better target products and
campaigns and to deliver genuine insights to customers. The leading marketing
firms are utilising the skills of data specialists to set themselves apart -
to extract and interpret meaningful trends from vast and complex volumes of
data.  
  
Of course, all of this is being underpinned by the increasing ubiquity of the
Internet - by the growth in mobile devices and other Internet-enabled
technologies such as sensor networks, but it nonetheless highlights the
growing demand for computer science graduates and data specialists,
particularly in industries outside the ICT sector.  
  
Of Australia’s 600,000 ICT workers, more than half now work outside the
traditional ICT sector, while both the McKinsey Global Institute and Gartner
predict that demand for data specialists will continue to grow strongly.
Gartner estimates that the demand for data specialists will reach more than 4
million jobs globally by 2015, with only a third of these positions likely to
be filled.  
  
This has created a troubling paradox. We now have a significant gap between
the technology-driven economy we have created and the skills that are not only
required to meet the current demand but also to drive future growth.  
  
The OECD has observed that the number of students enrolled in a mathematics
major in Australian universities fell by 15 per cent between 2001 and 2007,[3]
while the Trends in Mathematics and Science Study (TIMSS) found that
Australia’s performance in mathematics and science has stagnated over nearly
two decades.[4]  
  
Commencements in tertiary ICT courses have also fallen sharply, with a 53 per
cent decline between 2001 and 2011, while completions declined by 58 per cent
over the same period.[5]  
  
Compare this with China where 41 per cent of all degrees awarded by Chinese
institutions in 2011 were in a STEM subject.This is between two and three
times the proportion of STEM degrees awarded each year in countries such as
Australia, the UK and the US.[6]  
  
These low numbers of STEM and ICT skilled students and graduates are
frustrating industry who are concerned about the lack of sufficiently skilled
and qualified graduates able to start work in ICT-related jobs.  
  
Recently I spoke with Matt Barrie, Freelancer.com’s charismatic CEO, who
lamented the quantity and quality of Australia’s ICT graduates. He told me
that Freelancer was one of many Australian companies that are desperate for
Australian coders, engineers and computer scientists but regrettably often
have to employ workers from overseas as Australia’s tertiary sector is not
producing nearly enough graduates with the skills that enable them to start
work.  
  
What needs to be done to improve participation?  
  
To turn this trend around, we need to improve the pathways for students to
study IT from Foundation through to Year 12 and onto university. IT,
particularly coding and computational thinking, must be given a more prominent
position in the curriculum. As I have commented, this could be achieved
through the maths syllabus or as a stand alone subject, but regardless it is
important that we move beyond outdated discussions that focus on tech literacy
and instead expose primary school-aged children to tech creation through
coding.  
  
As a nation, we could probably do with fewer lawyers. But we absolutely need
more system engineers. We need more software developers. And we need more
people that not only have advanced skills in the use of proprietary software
such as Microsoft Excel, but also understand how computers work.  
  
Greater engagement with industry, such as through public-private partnerships
is another way that we can increase the number and quality of IT graduates.  
  
The Government’s recent announcement of trials based on the US P-TECH model is
a good step in this direction. P-TECH is an education pathways partnership
between IBM and the New York Education Department where students graduate with
an associate degree, along with the skills and knowledge they need to continue
their studies or transition directly into jobs in the IT industry.
Participating schools also pair students with corporate mentors who help guide
curricula and provide real-world insight into industry trends. Last week the
Prime Minister committed $500,000 to a P-TECH-style program in Geelong.
Public-private educational partnerships like this are providing students with
a recognised qualification, while helping to prepare them for a career in IT.  
  
We also need to monitor closely outcomes in the UK where last month the ICT
curriculum was replaced with a new computing curriculum. Unsurprisingly,
students as young as five and six are now receiving coding lessons.  
  
Back in January, Michael Gove, former UK Secretary of State for Education,
explained the changes by observing that:  
  
"ICT used to focus purely on computer literacy – teaching pupils, over and
over again, how to word-process, how to work a spreadsheet, how to use
programs already creaking into obsolescence; about as much use as teaching
children to send a telex or travel in a zeppelin.Our new curriculum teaches
children computer science, information technology and digital literacy:
teaching them how to code, and how to create their own programs; not just how
to work a computer, but how a computer works and how to make it work for
you".[19]  
  
I am pleased that as part of the Government’s Competitiveness Agenda, the
Coalition will invest $3.5 million through a ‘coding across the curriculum
programme’ to provide greater exposure to computer coding across different
year levels in Australian schools.  
  
Rethinking our approach to IT learning is key to addressing the skills
shortfall. Measures such as merging scientific and creative thinking at
primary school, or coding at primary school, lays important ground for
producing technology literate high school graduates - graduates trained to not
simply use technology, but to create, build and develop new technologies.  
  
Women in ICT  
  
The second change we have to make is to dramatically alter the composition of
those participating in STEM subjects and industries. In particular, we have to
increase the number of girls and women participating in ICT and STEM.  
  
Although women fill close to half of all jobs in Australia, they hold less
than 25% of STEM and ICT-related jobs.  
  
When I met with Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's Chief Operating Officer, in
February she offered me a telling anecdote about the participation of girls in
STEM related subjects. Of 35 primary school kids at a weekend coding camp,
only five were girls. Of those five girls, Sandberg herself had enrolled two
of them (her niece and her niece's friend). According to Sandberg the
percentage of women and girls studying ICT subjects was declining and was now
lower than it was twenty years ago - whereas in most other disciplines and
professions the share of female graduates has continued to rise.  
  
The bottom line is that we need to encourage and expose women to the fantastic
opportunities created by studying and working in ICT. We need deliberate and
directed action focused on motivating women to pursue ICT subjects and careers
and promoting female role models in Computer Science who can tell their
stories about the positive social impact careers in computing can have.  
  
Conclusion  
  
Just as most students of mathematics will not become engineers or actuaries
and most students of English will never write a novel, so most children who
learn how to code at school will not become software developers.  
  
But the training in logic and the understanding of how machines think will
enable them better to engage in any and every course of life and career they
pursue.  
  
Our future, our prosperity depends on our being more innovative, more
competitive and we simply cannot do that unless we are as technically literate
as the other nations with which we compete.  
  
In a nutshell we need knowledge and imagination. The former on its own is a
dull resource, the latter on its own is a hallucination. Combined they will
ensure an Australian future which is more exciting, more prosperous than ever
before.  
  
[ends]  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
[1] Originally published in The Age, 8 Sept 2014. Available online at:
www.smh.com.au/it-pro/expertise/it-crowd-shrinking-as-vce-enrolments-
plummet-20140907-10dizx.html  
  
[2] As published in SMH Oct 7 2014 “20-year-slide in students taking maths in
final year”.  
  
[3] Australian Industry Group report Lifting Our Science, Technology,
Engineering and Maths (STEM) Skills report  
  
  
  
[4] Sue Thompson et al. Highlights from TIMSS and PIRLS 2011 from Australia’s
perspective, Australian Council for Educational Research, 2012 (quoted in AiG
report)  
  
[5] Australian Workforce and Productivity Agency, ICT Skills Forum
presentation, November 2012 (quoted in AiG Report)  
  
[6]
http://www.obhe.ac.uk/newsletters/borderless_report_january_2013/global_race_for_stem_skills  
  
[7] Beanland,D.; How Engineers Australia can support the transformation of
engineering education in Australian universities, 30,10,2012 (quoted in AiG
report)  
  
[8] Australia’s skills and workforce development needs, Discussion Paper,
Australian Workforce and Productivity Agency, July 2012 (as quoted in AiG
report)  
  
[9] Science, Technology, Engineering And Mathematics: Australia’s Future,
released by Australia’s Chief Scientist, Professor Ian Chubb on 2 September
2014: www.chiefscientist.gov.au/2014/09/professor-chubb-releases-science-
technology-engineering-and-mathematics-australias-future/ p.7  
  
[10] Ibid, p.7  
  
[11] Ibid, p.7  
  
[12] Ibid, p.7  
  
[13] The Role of Science, Research and Technology in Llifting Australia’s
Productivity, released by the Australian Council of Learned Academies, 3 June
2014. Available online at: www.acola.org.au/index.php/projects/securing-
australia-s-future/project-4 p.14  
  
[14] Australian Council of Learned Academies Media Release 3 June 2014:
www.acola.org.au/index.php/news/59-research-and-innovation-critical-to-future-
australian-industries-finds-new-acola-report  
  
[15] STEM: Country Comparisons, released by the Australian Council of Learned
Academies, 4 June 2014. Available online at:
http://www.acola.org.au/index.php/projects/securing-australia-s-
future/project-2 p.9  
  
[16] Australian Council of Learned Academies Media Release 4 June 2014:
www.acola.org.au/index.php/news/32-new-acola-report-international-comparison-
study-of-stem-education  
  
[17] Consultant Report - Securing Australia’s Future - STEM: Country
Comparisons [STEM Report – Republic of Korea], Australian Council of Learned
Academies, May 2013. Available online at: www.acola.org.au/index.php/stem-
consultants-reports  
  
[18] The Guardian, 4 Sept 2014. Available online at:
www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/sep/04/coding-school-computing-children-
programming  
  
[19] The Guardian, 4 Sept 2014. Available online at:
www.theguardian.com/technology/2014/sep/04/coding-school-computing-children-
programmingMr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (09:32): I move:  
  
That this bill be now read a second time.  
  
The bill contains a package of reforms to prevent the further degradation of
the investigative capabilities of Australia's law enforcement and national
security agencies. The bill will require companies providing
telecommunications services in Australia, carriers and internet service
providers to keep a limited, prescribed set of telecommunications data for two
years. The bill amends the Telecommunications Interception and Access Act 1979
(interception act), and the Telecommunications Act 1997 (telecommunications
act).  
  
  
  
  
  
Modern communication technologies have revolutionised the abilities of people
to communicate, collaborate and express themselves. Sadly, however, these same
technologies are routinely misused and exploited by criminals, including those
who threaten our national security.  
  
Historically, telephone companies have kept call records showing the numbers
of both the A and B parties, time of call, duration of call and often the
location of the parties. These records have been kept for long periods and
were used for billing purposes. Under existing and long-standing legislation,
a range of law enforcement and other agencies have had the ability to access
this information without a warrant. These records are regularly subpoenaed in
civil proceedings, as well.  
  
When a device is connected to the internet it is assigned an IP address. This
is, like a telephone number, a unique address. While many hosts have static or
permanent IP addresses, in the vast majority of cases IP addresses are
allocated dynamically by the internet service provider or telco providing the
communication or the connection to the internet. Telecommunication companies
have the ability to retain the details of the customer IP address allocated
and many do so, but for differing periods. The capture and retention of these
addresses is more straightforward in the fixed line broadband environment than
in wireless networks. The widespread use of network address translation to
more efficiently use the limited number of IP version 4 addresses also adds a
level of complexity.  
  
The type of data referred to in the bill as telecommunications data, more
often described as metadata, is information about a communication but not its
content. So, in the telephone world, it reveals that one number belonging to a
particular account was connected to another number at a time and for a
duration, but does not reveal what they discussed. In the IP world it reveals
that a particular IP address, which may have been observed to have been
engaged in some unlawful activity, had been at the relevant time allocated to
a particular account. In the context of messaging—email, for example—it
reveals the sender , recipient, time and date, but again not the content.
Access to content, I stress, requires a warrant.  
  
Access to metadata plays a central role in almost every counter-terrorism,
counterespionage, cybersecurity and organised crime investigation. It is also
used in almost all serious criminal investigations, including investigations
into murder, serious sexual assaults, drug trafficking and kidnapping. The use
of this kind of meta data, therefore, is not new. However, as the business
models of service providers are changing with technology, they are keeping
fewer records. And they are keeping those records for shorter periods of time
because they do not need them any longer, in many cases, for billing. Many of
the records that are still kept are kept because of legacy systems put in
place years ago. In June 2013, the Parliamentary Joint Committee on
Intelligence and Security concluded that this diminution in the retention of
meta data is harming law enforcement and national security capabilities, and
that these changes are accelerating.  
  
Existing powers and laws are not adequate to respond to this challenge.
Preservation notices under the interception act can require carriers to 'quick
freeze' records that they hold, but these notices cannot create records that
have never been kept, and cannot bring back records that carriers have deleted
days, weeks or months before a crime is brought to an agency's attention.  
  
Simply put, investigations are failing.  
  
For example, in a current major child exploitation investigation, the AFP has
been unable to identify 156 out of 463 potential suspects, because certain
internet service providers do not retain the necessary IP address allocation
records to enable the resolution of the IP address—that 32-bit number—to the
particular account number the person in question was using. These records are
critical to link criminal activity online back to a real world human being.  
  
These impacts are not limited to law enforcement agencies in Australia. I give
an example provided to us by the Federal Police. During a recent Europol child
exploitation investigation, child exploitation investigations relied heavily
on access to telecommunications data as perpetrators primarily shared
information online, meaning that physical evidence was rarely available. Three
hundred and seventy-one suspects were believed to be in the United Kingdom.
Using retained telecommunications data, UK authorities were able to positively
identify 240 suspects, leading to 121 arrests and convictions. In contrast, of
the 377 suspects believed to be in Germany, which does not have a data
retention regime in force, German authorities were only able to identify seven
and were unable to obtain sufficient evidence to arrest or convict a single
person.  
  
Last year, a major Australian ISP reduced the period for which it keeps IP
address allocation records from many years to three months. In the 12 months
prior to that decision, the Australian Security Intelligence Organisation
(ASIO) obtained these records in relation to at least 10 national security
investigations, including counter-terrorism and cybersecurity investigations.
If those investigations took place today, vital intelligence and evidence
simply may not exist.  
  
No responsible government can sit by while those who protect our community
lose access to the tools they need to do the job. In the current threat
environment in particular, we cannot let this problem get worse.  
  
Data retention  
  
As such, this bill will allow regulations to prescribe a consistent, minimum
set of records that service providers who provide services in Australia must
keep for two years.  
  
A two-year retention period is based on the advice of our law enforcement and
security agencies, as well as the experience of a number of foreign
jurisdictions. While many cases are solved within a few months, investigations
into serious and complex crimes and threats to security often span many years,
requiring access to older records.  
  
The government recognises that data retention raises genuine concerns about
privacy. We are committed to addressing those concerns.  
  
As a starting point, the government will release the draft dataset and refer
it, along with this bill, to the PJCIS for review and public inquiry. The
draft dataset is, of course, not final, but it is already strictly limited.
For example:  
  
The government will also carefully consider any recommendations made by the
PJCIS about the dataset, or the broader regime provided for in the bill.  
  
There has also been a great deal of conjecture about how much data retention
may cost. As I have previously stated, the government is committed to ongoing,
good faith consultation with industry and expects to make a substantial
contribution to both the cost of implementation and the operation of this
scheme.  
  
This consultation will continue over the coming weeks, in parallel with the
PJCIS inquiry, through a joint government-industry working group, headed by
the Secretary of the Attorney-General's Department and deputy chaired by the
Director-General of ASIO, Major General Duncan Lewis, Australian Federal
Police Commissioner Mr Andrew Colvin and the Secretary of the Department of
Communications. These consultations will focus particularly on settling
technical aspects of the dataset and the costs of meeting the obligation.  
  
What I can say is that, to date, our consultation with industry has been very
productive. For example, based on industry advice, the bill allows individual
service providers to develop an implementation plan that provides a pathway to
compliance over up to 18 months. These plans will allow industry and
government to prioritise the retention of data that is most critical to
investigations, while allowing service providers to significantly reduce their
costs by aligning any systems changes with their internal business cycles.  
  
Access arrangements  
  
This bill does not provide agencies with new powers to access communications
data; the bill simply ensures that data will continue to be available to
agencies as a part of legitimate investigations, subject to the same, strict
limits that currently apply.  
  
In fact, the bill will strictly limit, and indeed reduce, the range of
enforcement agencies permitted to access telecommunications metadata without a
warrant.  
  
The bill will allow what we might call 'traditional' law enforcement agencies,
such as the police, Customs, crime commissions and anticorruption bodies, to
access this information.  
  
The bill will also grant the Attorney-General the power to declare, via
legislative instrument subject to parliamentary oversight, additional
agencies. Before making such a declaration, the Attorney-General will be
required to consider a range of strict criteria, including whether the agency
is subject to a binding privacy scheme.  
  
Safeguards  
  
The bill will also introduce a range of new and enhanced safeguards. In
particular, the bill:  
  
The government is also considering reforms to strengthen the security and
integrity of Australia's telecommunication infrastructure by establishing a
security framework for the telecommunications sector. This will provide better
protection for information held by industry in accordance with the data
retention scheme. The government expects this reform will be finalised well
before the end of the data retention implementation period.  
  
Concluding remarks  
  
This bill is critical to prevent the capabilities of Australia's law
enforcement and national security agencies being further degraded. It does not
expand the range of telecommunications metadata which is currently being
accessed by law enforcement agencies. It simply ensures that metadata is
retained for a period of two years. In the IP world, the object of the scheme
is principally to ensure that dynamically allocated customer IP addresses are
retained for two years so they can be resolved to an account holder. The bill
expressly precludes any obligation to retain information relating to web-
browsing activities. In other words, customer IP addresses will be retained
for two years but not the details of the IP addresses of the sites to which
that customer may connect in the course of their internet activity.  
  
More broadly, this bill demonstrates the government's commitment to ensuring
that access to sensitive and personal information by these agencies is
strictly controlled through robust accountability processes. I commend the
bill to the House.  
  
Debate adjourned.Ovum 2020 Summit  
  
Refining Our Telecommunications Framework  
  
31 October 2014  
  
Sydney  
  
  
  
  
  
Good morning and congratulations to Ovum on this, the inaugural Ovum 2020
Summit.  
  
Ovum have put together a great program today which is focussed on the world of
next generation networks, and the new generation of applications that service
providers will deliver over them.  
  
Since I have been Minister - and indeed Shadow Minister - Ovum has been one of
the most influential and informed voices on the key issues in my portfolio,
from the NBN to improving the delivery of eGovernment, to maximising the
efficiency of mobile networks. Analysts such as Steve Hodgkinson and David
Kennedy are clear thought leaders in their respective areas.  
  
I also want to acknowledge other key speakers and panelists here today
including:  
  
The innovations and the disruptive trends that are being spoken about today
are of enormous interest to me, and not just in an academic sense. As you know
I am a former chairman of one of Australia’s first ISPs and now am a
shareholder minister of the NBN. So while the debate has centred on the pits
and pipes, and the speed and manner in which new infrastructure can be
delivered, the crucial thing is to ensure we are maximising its use and
utility.  
  
Metadata  
  
Before I start today, I wanted to talk about the data retention measures I
introduced in the House of Representatives Government yesterday.  
  
I welcome the constructive comments from John Stanton and the Communications
Alliance, recognising the importance of a data retention scheme to the work of
our law enforcement agencies. The Comms Alliance has offered to work
cooperatively with Government to ensure we are able to implement a scheme that
is cost effective and practical.  
  
For our part, the Government is committed to engaging constructively with the
industry to ensure we can move to a new data retention regime with the minimum
amount of cost and disruption to service providers.  
  
Firstly, while this is important legislation that needs to be dealt with in a
timely fashion, we are not seeking to rush and we will wait for the report of
the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security to make
recommendations on the details and structure of the new regime.  
  
In addition, we will allow carriers and ISPs covered by the proposed law to
develop an implementation plan that provides a pathway to compliance with the
new scheme over a period of up to 18 months.  
  
These plans will allow the industry and Government to work together and begin
to identify and prioritise the data that is most critical to investigations,
while allowing service providers significantly to reduce their costs by
aligning any system changes with their internal business cycles.  
  
Apart from the Joint Committee I have mentioned, the Government will establish
a parallel working group that will include the Secretaries of the Departments
of Attorney General and Communications, the Federal Police Commissioner and
the Director General of ASIO, along with industry representatives, to help
settle the technical aspects of the data set that is to be retained and to
help refine the reasonable costs.  
  
And finally, the Government has said we expect to make a substantial
contribution both to the implementation and operational costs of any new
scheme.  
  
As I said at a joint press conference with Attorney General George Brandis
yesterday, we understand that we’re asking many retail providers to store data
in a way that is either not required for their business purposes today or is
likely not to be required in the future.  
  
While we haven’t settled on a quantum as yet, it is important to recognise
that there is a long standing and well understood arrangement for sharing
costs when law enforcement agencies make metadata requests of companies at the
moment.  
  
We acknowledge that there is a fine line on the balance between maintaining
national security and privacy which is why, in additional to the safeguards
already in place under the Privacy Act, we have introduced a range of measures
to protect personal privacy including:  
  
The Right Framework for the NBN  
  
Now turning to the NBN, everyone here in the room will have heard my old joke
about the lost tourist in Ireland seeking directions to Dublin -- if you
haven’t, you’re obviously very new to the industry!  
  
Suffice to say, we wouldn’t be starting from here.  
  
Everywhere else in the world, the norm has been for Governments and regulators
to promote infrastructure based competition.  
  
The experience has been that the best way to ensure incumbents face enough
pressure to invest and upgrade their networks is from very intense competition
from cable companies in particular, but also from smaller altnets.  
  
Almost invariably, where cable companies have upgraded users to superfast
broadband, for instance with Docsis 3.0, they have tended to do so without
charging users any premium at all. When Virgin in the U.K. for instance
upgraded its customers to 50mbps speeds in 2009, they actually reduced
prices[1]. And other examples are legion.  
  
Many studies have shown that competition leads to more innovation and choice
for consumers[2]. A recent European study showed markets with widespread cable
deployments are more dynamic and have much greater penetration of
superfast[3].  
  
Indeed the Vertigan panel recognised the value of competition. In recognising
that competition will lead to some duplicative costs, increasing them by 20
per cent, it modelled that a one-year acceleration in broadband deployment and
a 2.5 per cent increase in the rate of productivity growth would ensure that
those costs were offset.  
  
But as the Vertigan panel acknowledged – and indeed as I noted in a recent
speech[4] – there are still very large risks to the delivery of this project.
In the words of the panel’s report: “Any decision to deviate from the current
development path for NBN Co will inevitably involve cost and delays,
potentially exacerbating community dissatisfaction with the current progress
of the rollout.”[5]  
  
While the Government is yet to deliver its full response to the Vertigan
Panel, it is important to note that we acknowledge the importance of the
panel’s work and indeed we recognise why they made these recommendations in
the first place.  
  
Firstly, while any attempt to force a disaggregation of the NBN Co in the
short term would lead to large costs and would be an unacceptable distraction
as the network is rolled out, we are very alert to the need to to give future
Governments optionality.  
  
While the NBN Co continues its transition towards the Multi Technology Mix,
the company has resolved to maintain its HFC operations in a distinct business
unit thus making a future disaggregation as recommended by the Vertigan Panel
feasible if a future Government resolves to do so.  
  
I have said that the privatisation of the NBN Co is a priority for Wyatt Roy’s
second term as Prime Minister - however the 23 year old Member for Longman is
such a formidable parliamentarian I am not sure that eventuality is as far off
as many imagine! Nonetheless, while privatisation is, if ever, a long way off,
it is also important to recognise that decisions made now can lead to huge and
potentially irreversible costs in the future.  
  
Secondly, the company faces a competitive threat in servicing multi-dwelling
units in metropolitan areas and it is now well advanced in its accelerated
program, with 10 out of 12 multi dwelling units identified in the first
limited deployment now ready for service.  
  
Those multi dwelling units are in:  
  
· Fortitude Valley in Queensland  
  
· Haymarket and the Sydney CBD in NSW, and  
  
· Docklands and South Melbourne in Victoria.  
  
But I have made it clear that the company is to have full flexibility and be
innovative in its deployment and this is particularly true in areas identified
as being vulnerable to competitive threat.  
  
The company has said that it expects its fibre-to-the-basement product ready
for widespread deployment in the first quarter of 2015 and this should see the
continued acceleration of the program.  
  
And thirdly, we are working with the NBN Co and consulting with private
companies in the greenfields sector to ensure that there is a more level
playing field.  
  
We will have a discussion paper out soon on greenfields to canvass potential
changes because we will not do what the previous Government did in imposing
huge costs on the industry with very little analysis.  
  
However, as I outlined a few weeks ago, while we will not seek full cost
recovery from developers in the provision of greenfield infrastructure, we
will continue to work towards a model where more of the NBN’s costs are
transparent and private providers are not at a competitive disadvantage.  
  
Spectrum reform  
  
And finally, in terms of the public spectrum, the Government is committed to
creating a framework that reduces costs to businesses, facilitates innovation,
and enables businesses to respond quickly to changes in technologies and
consumer preferences and enter new markets.  
  
It is estimated that mobile data will grow by 265 per cent over the four years
to 2017, increasing from an estimated 22.2 petabytes in 2013 to 81.1 petabytes
in 2017[6].  
  
The growth in wireless data services presents significant economic and social
benefits to all Australians. For instance, a report commissioned by the ACMA
found that mobile broadband contributed $33 billion to the economy over a six-
year period to 2013, largely through productivity gains[7].  
  
Australia was one of the first countries to reduce constraints on spectrum use
through the introduction of market-based mechanisms for the allocation of
spectrum. This approach enables licensees to determine how they utilise
spectrum and respond to changing technologies and consumer demand, if certain
conditions are met.  
  
The benefits of a liberalised approach to spectrum management have been
clearly demonstrated in the Australian mobile telecommunications sector,
including:  
  
In May this year, I announced a review of the Australia’s spectrum policy and
management framework. The purpose of the review is to modernise and simplify
the framework to improve its efficiency and flexibility.  
  
The Department will be releasing a consultation paper shortly that outlines a
number of proposals for change, including those I identified in my speech at
the ACMA’s Radcomms 2014 Conference in September.  
  
One of the proposals the review will consider is the introduction of a single
licensing framework. A single licensing framework will likely increase the
flexibility of spectrum users to respond to changes in spectrum use and
facilitate the introduction of more efficient technologies.  
  
Stakeholder feedback is encouraging and the introduction of a flexible single
licensing framework received support at the Radcomms Conference 2014.  
  
The review will also consider the creation of a clearer and simplified policy
framework to ensure transparency and accountability in decision making. This
would involve Government policy statements being issued to the ACMA as well as
specific powers of Ministerial intervention to direct major policy
initiatives, and the ACMA providing an annual work program to the Minister
identifying key priorities over a 3 to 5 year timeframe.  
  
The spectrum review will also consider reforms to television broadcasting to
increase flexibility, promote efficient use of spectrum and move spectrum to
its highest value use.  
  
Television broadcasters should be able to use spectrum more flexibly and more
efficiently in providing services. In practice, there are a number of ways in
which this principle could be implemented.  
  
For instance, commercial and national broadcasters should commence their
transition to MPEG-4 only broadcasting, which uses spectrum much more
efficiently. To allow for this transition, in the short term, the Government
will free up the spectrum known as the sixth channel to assist in the testing
and migration to MPEG-4. The sixth channel remains substantially vacant but is
currently being used by community television in mainland capitals.  
  
The best outcome for community television is that in future it uses the
internet as its distribution platform which is why the Government is extending
current licensing arrangements for community television until the end of
December 2015.  
  
Coincident with the spectrum review, the Department of Communications will
shortly release a discussion paper seeking industry’s views on future
arrangements for digital television broadcasting.  
  
Conclusion  
  
So in conclusion, competition is the lifeblood of this dynamic and rapidly
evolving industry, an industry in which the only real constant is continual
innovation and change.  
  
The reform measures we are working to implement are absolutely essential to
allow the telecommunications sector to continue to innovate and compete.  
  
I thank you for your contributions and efforts to date and look forward to
continue working together in ensuring this exciting industry continues to
deliver consumers the widest possible choices and the best service.  
  
Thank youWell good morning and welcome to the CommsDay 'NBN Rebooted' conference.  
  
And congratulations to Grahame Lynch and CommsDay for providing the leading
forum for a lively but informed debate about the future of this industry in
general and, especially today, the NBN in particular.  
  
I wonder, however, whether "NBN Rebooted" is the right term. After all we
generally reboot a computer because there has been a crash (well that's apt)
but we do so by turning it off and then after a respectful pause, turning it
on again.  
  
The theme, I suppose, is one of renewal and starting again. If only it had
been or could have been so easy.  
  
The NBN project was certainly, demonstrably, on the wrong track by the time of
the election, but we did not stop the project and start again. The process has
been more like changing the course of an aircraft carrier. We continued with
the construction of the fibre to the premises network, but on a more
consistent, professional basis and at the same time proceeded to change the
deployment strategy in line with conclusions of the strategic review.  
  
The NBN project over the last year has been a story of continuity and change,
the foot firmly on the accelerator but wiser and more experienced hands on the
steering wheel.  
  
There have been many changes in the last year and I will discuss some of them
in a moment, but the biggest change has been the most basic and in some ways
the most obvious.  
  
The Australian Government, as sole shareholder, has enabled the company to do
what any successful business must do - focus relentlessly on the needs of the
customers.  
  
What do they want? What will they pay for? What, in short, are the service
levels customers will value?  
  
The technology platform that delivers those service levels is an important
consideration for the NBN Co, but is not of much interest to their customers.
As I asked a journalist in Tasmania recently "Do you imagine your readers have
any interest in the brand of printing press you operate, whether the paper is
delivered on a bike or in a van, let alone what publishing program you use?
All they care about is the quality of the product - how you get there is your
concern."  
  
And so the NBN Co under Ziggy Switkowski and Bill Morrow's leadership is now
refocussed on its customers and their requirements.  
  
This is summed up in the company's mission statement, which is "to enable the
digital economy and close the digital divide" .  
  
This morning, the NBN Co released its 2014-17 Corporate Plan.  
  
This is very much an interim document. It does not provide new operational
forecasts beyond 30 June 2015. They will be set out in a full three year plan
expected to be completed by the company early next year.  
  
We recruited Bill Morrow as the CEO because of his track record in turning
around telecom businesses and his experience in building from scratch a large
telecom network.  
  
Bill's calm and deliberate leadership, supported by a very well qualified
Chairman and board and an experienced and determined executive team, is
already showing great progress.  
  
In the last year, the company has finalised key milestones, including:  
  
I saw this first hand in Tasmania last week with VisionStream, where the
relationship has evolved from one with a narrow focus on liquidated damages to
one where both companies are working tightly to improve productivity.  
  
Many of the lessons learnt from the rollout so far need to be implemented
around the country and I am proud to see evidence of this occurring:  
  
David Thodey once described the commercial deal with the NBN Co as the most
complex ever signed in Australia's corporate history2.  
  
The amendments to those Definitive Agreements with Telstra (and their
counterparts with Optus) are equally complex.  
  
I want to record here my appreciation for the dedication of all those
involved, on both sides, and especially the team from NBN Co and the
Department of Communications.  
  
It is a long time since I negotiated and documented big commercial deals for a
living, and it may be that I cut my legal teeth in simpler times, but I agree
with David Thodey - these agreements are certainly the most complex I have
ever seen.  
  
While there have been many honest differences of perspective and frank
discussions to resolve them, I want to make two really important points about
the negotiations.  
  
Firstly, as Telstra has acknowledged in its Annual Report, it has not used
this negotiation to try to increase the amount of money it gets out of the
commercial framework and does not contemplate any incremental value to Telstra
for the transfer of its copper and HFC networks to the NBN Co.  
  
And secondly, while Telstra has sought to ensure that it is not worse off for
very materially amending the DAs, this has not in any way slowed the rollout.  
  
The statistics don't lie: In the previous financial year the NBN Co increased
the tempo of the rollout from passing 1,600 serviceable premises a week with
fibre in brownfield areas to passing 3,300 serviceable premises a week3. In
the current financial year, we will increase the run rate so that the NBN Co
is passing 5,900 serviceable premises a week.  
  
In terms of activations, the company is forecasting it will almost treble the
number of paying customers in the fixed line footprint, with 385,000 customers
expected to be on the fibre networks by June 30.  
  
And this goes right to the heart of the NBN Co operating in a more
businesslike manner. As we all know, activations has been perhaps the single
biggest challenge with the FTTP rollout to date, with every drop (connection
to the customer's premises) representing its own unique characteristics and
challenges.  
  
In the past 10 weeks, the company has been averaging more than 3,000
activations on its brownfields fibre network alone, which is almost double the
average rate of activations last financial year.  
  
And the transition towards the multi-technology mix could only be made with
the joint pilot with Telstra to deploy 1,000 nodes in NSW and Queensland.  
  
This will help the NBN Co 'industrialise' the process of rolling out nodes,
and understand the construction challenges. The next step, of which you will
be well aware, is in the NBN Co connecting customers and developing its back-
end business and operating support systems to support the widespread
deployment of FTTN from the middle of next year.  
  
While the shadow communications minister, Mr Clare, has very rarely asked me a
question in the House and has never sought a debate on the NBN, he does
regularly complain that the Government has had too many reviews into the NBN.  
  
Now if I had been part of a Government that had made such a hash of broadband
policy and had wasted tens of billions in doing so, I suppose I would not want
my folly to be revisited.  
  
The truth is that we have conducted precisely the reviews that we promised
before the election.  
  
It was important to have the history of this project set out, as Bill Scales
did, showing how in just eleven weeks without any proper analysis let alone a
mandate from the electorate, the Labor Government resolved to build an
entirely new Government owned customer access network for what they claimed
then was $43 billion.  
  
It was important that the NBN Co itself carefully and soberly examine the
state of the rollout strategy to date and weigh up the options for mitigating
the mistakes made. The Strategic Review was the company's document - it was as
much owned by the NBN Co as the corporate plan released today.  
  
And of course the Vertigan Panel's cost benefit analysis and regulatory review
were simply doing the hard analytical work, late in the day that should have
been done at the outset.  
  
And despite all of this work, all of this evidence both from Australia and
overseas that the flexible, multi technology approach the NBN Co is now taking
is the most cost effective one, the Labor Party, with all the imagination of a
dalek, keeps on repeating that anything less than fibre to the premises is
"second rate" and inadequate to connect Australians to the cybersphere.  
  
When we were in opposition we challenged Labor's policy with detailed analysis
and argument. We set out extensive evidence of best practice internationally
and compared it to what was happening here. But the Labor opposition today
does not engage on any matter of substance. The Conrovian agenda is unchanged,
the Senate NBN Committee is used as a platform for abusing NBN Co executives
and disrupting their work, and any analysis that disagrees with Labor's
previous policy is dismissed as biased or "written by mates".  
  
Like the Bourbons, Labor has learned nothing and forgotten nothing.  
  
The NBN Corporate Plan released today contains a number of targets for
2014-15.  
  
The first is the target for the number of premises passed in fixed line areas.
I must say at the outset that these figures do not include the FTTN pilot,
which will pass more than 240,000 premises – if these were to be included, it
would increase the size of the fixed-line footprint by more than a quarter.  
  
The reason for not releasing these sites as being ready for service in the
current financial year is that we want to work closely with the industry to
ensure that RSPs have ample time to develop VDSL products and that the NBN
Co's own back end systems are ready. Again, the point is to ensure certainty
and a smooth transition rather than prop up some short term figures for the
sake of a press release.  
  
The company's expectation is that the FTTN premises passed this financial year
will be able to be activated by June or July. So for prudence they are not
included in the numbers for the financial year ended 30 June 2015. If they can
be activated earlier, of course they will be. We know, and the company knows,
that the object of this exercise is not numbers in a press release but paying
customers on the network.  
  
The company has advised that there will be 815,000 premises ready for service
in the fixed line footprint by June 30, an increase of 66 per cent from the
project to date. That is to say, they will be passed by fibre to the premises
or fibre to the basement connections.  
  
This is a conservative measure. We are only releasing FSAMs as 'ready for
service' at the point when 90 per cent of the premises within the site are
passed.  
  
Previously, an FSAM was described as 'ready for service' when testing on the
local and distribution networks were complete. This was a wonderfully
Conrovian metric – the customer might not have a means of connecting to the
network and the NBN Co thus had no means of earning revenue on its asset, but
the network running down the street was in great shape!  
  
And in its own way it underlined what was wrong - only an enterprise whose
goals were essentially political would call anything "ready for service" when
the customers couldn't get a service!! The days of "fibre the press release"
are over - I want to see lots of customers connected to the network.  
  
As I have said to Bill Morrow and the NBN Co management, a key measure of
success will be lifting the level of serviceability.  
  
I repeat: the consumer must be at the centre of the NBN Co's focus and that is
why we have spent so much time this year cleaning up old FSAMs to reduce the
number of service class zeros and thus increase the number of premises that
can actually order a service.  
  
By far the most frustrating experiences of end-users with the NBN Co to date
has been in ordering a service. In end-user surveys, installations and
activations have shown up as the area where the NBN Co is doing the worst4.  
  
As the TIO found this year5, the NBN accounted for only 3 per cent of industry
complaints but accounted for 25 per cent of industry complaints about problems
in getting an Internet connection, and 40 per cent of complaints about missed
appointments for connections.  
  
This is why the NBN Co is forecasting it will increase the number of
serviceable premises in brownfield areas from 67 per cent of the total
premises passed to 81 per cent of premises passed.  
  
As a consequence of this businesslike approach, the company is also
forecasting a sharp increase in operating revenues from $61 million in
FY2013-14 to $160 million in 2014-15.  
  
We are also looking to more than double the reach of premises in the fixed
wireless footprint, bringing the total to 230,000 premises.  
  
Of course, the financial year will also see the continuation of the critical
design and construction phase of the satellites in the Long Term Satellite
Service, which are scheduled for launch in late 2015.  
  
As I have said many times, if there is an argument for government intervention
in broadband, it is in rural and remote areas which are not otherwise economic
for the private sector to service.  
  
It is pretty obvious that the NBN has its biggest impact with customers whose
broadband was previously either non-existent or very inadequate and that
includes most people covered by the fixed wireless footprint.  
  
It is a great measure of the pace of the rollout and the potential of the NBN
that in the six months to June, according to CommBank analysts, the industry
added 220,000 broadband subscribers, of which around 80,000 were from the NBN
in areas with no broadband or very poor broadband[6]. This was the best
industry performance in terms of new subscribers since 2008.  
  
The NBN Co faces very substantial challenges and risks. While the multi
technology model is less risky and less expensive, it is nonetheless still the
largest infrastructure project in our history. Furthermore unlike a giant dam
or tunnel or bridge, as a piece of widely distributed, linear infrastructure
connecting directly to customers it is, in many respects, over ten million
small projects each with their own individual characteristics - not least of
which is the occupier of the premises involved!  
  
The NBN Co is also the largest corporate turnaround in our history with big
changes to personnel, to culture (most important) and of course to strategy
and operations. The changes already effected are beginning to bear fruit, as
is evidenced by the document being released today.  
  
The next six months is a critical time for NBN Co and the industry. But if
there is one commitment I can give you it is that we will always ensure that
the NBN Co, and the policies that surround it, are keenly focussed on the
needs of the customer.  
  
Ensuring that Australians are as soon as possible and as affordably as
possible connected to high speed broadband is our objective. The means of
achieving that are all secondary to that end.  
  
[ends]  
  
The 2014-17 Corporate Plan is available on NBN Co's website.  
  
[1] NBN Co 2014-17 Corporate Plan, p.6, www.nbnco.com.au [2]
www.telstra.com.au/abouttelstra/download/document/tls781-nbn-analyst-briefing-
transcript.pdf [3] 1568 premises/week versus 3,336 premises/week [4] NBN Co
2014-17 Corporate Plan, p.37 [5] TIO, 2014, Annual Report [6] CommBank, 2014,
"Broadband Industry Update: Broadband growth remains solid", November 7It is the responsibility of any incoming Government to look carefully at the
range of activities that taxpayers fund, and ask the tough questions. Is an
expenditure serving the public interest? Does it represent good value for
taxpayers? Can the objective be achieved more cost-effectively, or a better
outcome be delivered at the same cost?  
  
In every portfolio, across every spending program, we've had to look closely
at what we do and how we do it. In my own portfolio that includes our national
broadcasters—the ABC and SBS, which receive $1.4 billion every year from the
Government.  
  
After working closely with the broadcasters for the last 8 or 9 months it is
clear that there is a great opportunity for them to modernise their businesses
without reducing the resources they have available for programming; in other
words without reducing the quantity or quality of what Australians view and
listen to on ABC or SBS.  
  
This is what productivity is all about - getting the same, or ideally, a
bigger bang for a smaller buck.  
  
Running the ABC, or indeed SBS, is not easy. The ABC, for example, is required
by its charter to provide a balance between programmes of wide appeal and
specialised programs. This is the conundrum. If the ABC simply goes for
ratings and emulates the approach of the commercials, people will ask why we
need it at all; if its programming is too arcane - Sophocles in the original
Greek perhaps - people will ask why we are wasting taxpayers' dollars on
elitist entertainment.  
  
The commercial broadcaster's revenues are a function of its ratings - simple.
The ABC's are a function of its ability to persuade the Government of the day
to give it money. The commercial broadcaster's core KPI, like any private
sector firm, is its profitability. The ABC's KPIs - set out in its charter,
are much more subjective than a line in an income statement.  
  
All of this makes it much harder to run a public broadcaster. There simply
isn't the same relentless, daily pressure to innovate, to cut costs, to lift
productivity that there is in the private sector. Now despite that I must
acknowledge that there has been real innovation at both of the public
broadcasters - especially in digital media which, as you know, is within the
charter of both the ABC and SBS.  
  
Equally, I should acknowledge that the SBS has always been a leader in doing
more with less - in no small part because it has never had much money to play
around with. When we restructured the bankrupt TEN network more than twenty
years ago, we learned a great deal from SBS' lean operating model and it is
still in many respects a good example today.  
  
Finding efficiencies and delivering new services are not mutually exclusive
pursuits. With the right reforms and leadership the ABC and the SBS will
emerge from this process much stronger organisations, capable of generating
even better value from the money Australians invest in their operation.  
  
As you know, the Abbott Government inherited a growing mountain of debt and,
despite numerous promises to the contrary from Wayne Swan, a budget deeply in
deficit and, without big policy changes, certain to remain in deficit.  
  
The melancholy consequence of spending more than you receive in income is more
and more debt and the fundamental inescapable fact is this: if we let things
go on as they were, we were on track to record deficits forever, and pile up a
mountain of debt – six hundred billion dollars or more.  
  
So we had to raise more revenue and/or cut spending. None of that is popular.  
  
Labor and the Greens dispute the need for the Government to take any action.
Bill Shorten has offered no alternative plan. Unless you've got an alternative
plan to repair the Budget, what you're really saying is: "Don't worry – keep
spending, keep borrowing, hope for the best and let our kids and grandkids
sort it out."  
  
So we have made savings across the board and that includes the ABC and SBS. Is
it seriously argued that the public broadcasters should be exempt from the
spending cuts that apply to almost all other government departments and
services?  
  
Some have pointed to a statement made by Tony Abbott on the eve of the
election that there would be "no cuts to the ABC or SBS."  
  
These remarks need to be understood in context. Prior to the election many
people (including competing media groups) urged the Coalition to take an axe
to the ABC in order to curtail their on-air and online activities.  
  
Both Joe Hockey and I made it quite clear we had no plans to make cuts of that
nature at the public broadcasters – but if there were to be savings made
across the board, the ABC and SBS could not expect to be exempt from the
obligation to contribute by eliminating waste and inefficiencies.  
  
Unless you believe that Mr Abbott was, in that one line, intending to
contradict and over rule the very careful statements of intention made by Mr
Hockey and myself, his remarks can only be understood in the same context,
which left open savings of a kind which would not diminish the effective
resources the ABC and SBS had available to produce content.  
  
At the national broadcasters, I saw an important first step was reforming the
procurement of (and funding arrangements for) transmission services for the
ABC and SBS.  
  
Currently ABC and SBS receive tied funding earmarked exclusively for
transmission costs. Much of this funding is provided on a 'no-win, no-lose'
basis – the Government funds the actual costs of these services each year,
with any unspent funding returned to the Budget.  
  
This arrangement removes any incentive for the broadcasters to aggressively
negotiate for lower prices for services, other than of course the patriotic
interest shared by all Australians have in ensuring the Commonwealth's
resources are prudently spent.  
  
A review of transmission found that there are material savings available from
changing the way the Government funds the broadcasters' transmission costs.  
  
As of this year's MYEFO transmission funding will be rolled into the ABC and
SBS's broader operational funding, encouraging the broadcasters to manage
their transmission costs within their total budget allocation and adopt more
efficient practices. So if less is spent on transmission, more can be spent on
something else, including distribution over the Internet, if not required to
fund the savings I will outline in more detail in a moment.  
  
I asked the Department of Communications to undertake an Efficiency Study to
identify savings that could be made by improving efficiencies in the back of
house departments of the ABC, in other words savings that could be made
without reducing the resources available for programming.  
  
This was a very deliberate move on my part. The easiest way to cut costs in a
television network is simply to cancel programmes - and replace them with
cheaper ones. More difficult is to go through the way the business operates,
line by line and ask can we do this more efficiently, with fewer people, with
fewer fixed assets or other expensive resources.  
  
A commercial broadcaster is always going to look for savings that do not
impact on programming quality - because that is the key to its ratings and
hence to its revenues. A public broadcaster, which like the ABC does not carry
advertising, is not so clearly constrained.  
  
In other words, it was obvious the ABC and SBS were going to have to
contribute to the overall Budget repair strategy, but I wanted to make sure
those savings would be made in the most intelligent and business like fashion.  
  
The Department was assisted by Mr Peter Lewis, for many years the Chief
Financial Officer of the Seven Network, as well as senior executives from both
broadcasters.  
  
The study was provided to the ABC and SBS in April to assist their boards and
management in identifying areas they may not have previously explored in their
efforts to improve efficiency. It highlighted outdated business and
administrative practices where they could pursue savings without affecting
programming or services.  
  
Given the findings of the Efficiency Study, we announced a 1 per cent
reduction in funding to the ABC and SBS in the 2014-15 Budget. This
contributed savings over four years of $38.3 million for the ABC and $8.5
million for SBS.  
  
This was not an ongoing efficiency dividend, but as I stated at the time, a
down-payment on larger savings to be made following consultation with the
broadcasters on how they could best implement the findings of the Efficiency
Study and progress their own savings initiatives.  
  
I record again the Government's thanks to Mr Lewis, the team from my
Department and of course the management of ABC and SBS in preparing that
efficiency study.  
  
In its 146 pages the Lewis Efficiency Study discusses 48 operational
activities across the ABC and the SBS. It identifies five key areas where
significant efficiencies and savings can be achieved:  
  
What about Programme Cuts and Changes?  
  
Ever since the prospect of these savings has been raised the ABC, or people
claiming to speak for the ABC, has suggested that this or that programme will
be a casualty.  
  
At one point even the beloved Peppa Pig was said to be facing the axe! And
then when that strained credulity, Tony Jones and Lateline were substituted
for the pig only to be followed by the Stateline versions of 730 on Friday
evenings.  
  
Let me be quite clear. The savings announced today are not of a scale that
requires any particular change to programming. All of the savings can be found
within operational efficiencies of the kind canvassed in the Lewis Efficiency
Study.  
  
Now while money is one scarce resource a linear television broadcaster has to
manage, another scarce resource is time in the schedule. And broadcasters will
make changes to programmes all the time.  
  
The ABC, I know, is particularly concerned that the median age for its
television audience is 61. I find this reassuring. It means I am still one of
ABC TV's younger viewers.  
  
The ABC will change programmes because it thinks something else will rate
better, or it might think that the money spent on programme A can better spent
on programme B. Or it might think that money spent on television can be better
spent on online. This is the normal business of a media company. The
alternative (which some might like I grant you) is that nothing ever changes -
a recipe for eventual irrelevance.  
  
There is a temptation for management to blame the Government for some of these
programme changes. That would be cowardly.  
  
The ABC management know that they can meet these savings without reducing the
resources available to programming - furthermore they know that the Government
and their Board know too.  
  
The ABC has the most extensive broadcasting network in rural and regional
Australia—this is one of the ABC's greatest strengths. The efficiency study
noted that in the absence of commercial providers, the ABCs Local Radio
service, particularly in regional and rural Australia, is relied upon for
local news and the essential emergency broadcaster function.  
  
The study notes this requires a physical presence at the local level, with its
associated staff, operating and capital expenses. While the Study also
suggests that the ABC should review the size and location of radio stations so
that they match changing population sizes, it did not recommend any changes to
the level of radio coverage in rural and regional areas.  
  
There is nothing more clearly within the letter and spirit of the ABC's
charter than its local radio services in regional and rural Australia. With
the enormous flexibility offered by the Internet and digital technologies
coupled with the enthusiasm for story telling of their local news teams,
without further expense we should see more local news with pictures on the air
and on the net.  
  
In total, including the 1 per cent down payment announced in the May Budget,
the full savings the broadcasters will return to the Budget amounts to $308
million over 5 years.  
  
For the ABC this means it will receive $5.2 billion over 5 years rather than
$5.5 billion, a saving of $254 million or 4.6%. The ABC expects that it will
have implementation costs over this period of $41 million in order to achieve
the savings.  
  
For the SBS this means its operating budget will be reduced by $25.2 million
over the 5 year period or 1.7%. A legislative change to allow SBS to generate
further revenue by changes to its advertising arrangements brings SBS's total
savings returned to the budget to $53.7 million or 3.7% . As you will deduce
we are, after extensive discussions with SBS, assuming that the additional
revenue to the SBS from the advertising changes amounts to $28.5 million over
five years.  
  
To put this in context, the funding proposal will reduce aggregate Government
funding to both national broadcasters over the five years from 2014-15 to
2019-20 from $6.9 billion to $6.6 billion. A total reduction in Commonwealth
expenditure of 4.4%  
  
The Government provides the ABC and SBS with the majority of their funding but
it has no power to direct the broadcasters in relation to operational matters.
Decisions regarding which efficiencies will be implemented, and when, are
matters for the ABC and SBS Boards.  
  
SBS currently has a strict limit of five minutes of ads per hour. In line with
a recommendation from the Efficiency Study, the Government intends to
introduce legislation into the Parliament to allow for a more flexible
approach allowing the network to average the five minutes per hour across the
day, but run no more than 10 minutes in any given hour.  
  
This means the the existing daily limit of 120 minutes will be maintained –
which is well below the 350 minutes per day commercial broadcasters can devote
to advertising.  
  
Take the fact that, the two highest television revenue results for SBS since
it started to carry advertising in 2003 were $72.3 million in 2009-10 and
$73.4 million in 2013-14 and those were in small part due to the FIFA World
Cup.  
  
Compare this to the 2013-14 advertising revenue earned by commercial
broadcasters of $3.9 Billion: we are talking about less than 2 per cent of
that commercial television advertising pie.  
  
SBS maintain that from this change they will receive $8-9 million per annum of
additional revenue. Their costing model is robust, although there are some who
dispute it.  
  
The efficiency review thought the most optimistic level of earning would be
$20 million per annum. Whichever way you look at it, the additional revenue
SBS could collect from this change is not material compared to the revenues of
the commercial broadcasters.  
  
As I said this change will require legislation, like other media reforms the
Government is considering. The Government intends to put this amendment to
Parliament in Q1 next year.  
  
The focus of the Efficiency Study and the work I've undertaken with both
broadcasters is about more than repairing the Budget, it is also about reform
that will modernise both organisations, pave the way for productivity gains
and ensure our national broadcasters are focused on good business practices
for the long term. In this vein I've looked at the budgeting and decision-
making structures of the broadcasters and at mechanisms to improve
transparency of their operations.  
  
The ABC and SBS are independent corporations created under their respective
charter Acts and under the Public Governance, Performance and Accountability
Act.  
  
As the Minister I'm accountable to Parliament for the performance of agencies
within my Portfolio. Performance relates to many aspects of their operations
that are distinct from programming decisions.  
  
An interesting insight from the Efficiency Study was that the ABC and SBS
Boards would benefit from a clearer understanding of the Government's Budget
priorities, and the outcomes the government is seeking from its annual
investment of taxpayers' money. This needs to be carefully balanced against
the statutory independence of both organisations.  
  
Parliament included provisions in the broadcasters' establishing legislation
that provides the government of the day with the right to offer formal advice
on operational and financial matters to each of the Boards - section 8 of the
ABC Act and section 11 of the SBS Act.  
  
This advice must be considered by the Boards but can, of course be ignored.
Importantly it would be a very transparent way of providing advice to the
broadcasters on matters that do not affect their independence.  
  
Let me set out some of the matters I intend to raise with the ABC.  
  
For reasons I frankly do not understand, the ABC does not have an independent
Chief Financial Officer. That role is undertaken by Mr David Pendleton the
Chief Operating Officer who, in that role, is responsible for most of the
resources and cost base of the ABC.  
  
A company like the ABC should have a qualified CFO who reports directly to the
Board as well as the CEO and is fearlessly independent, ensuring that the
management and board understand precisely where and how funds are being spent
and what everything costs.  
  
Equally I propose to recommend to the Board that the position of Editor in
Chief no longer be combined with that of Managing Director. It creates the
impression that the Managing Director is directly in charge of ABC News and
Current Affairs which he is not, and given the wide range of his
responsibilities, could not be.  
  
The Board should expect the head of news and current affairs, like the CFO, to
report directly to the Board as well as to the managing director thus enabling
the Board to discharge its statutory obligation referred to below.  
  
Another matter is providing more granular detail on where the ABC, and SBS,
spend their money and how it relates to their charter obligations.  
  
In my view the ABC and SBS should so far as possible seek to be as transparent
as a public listed company. The best cure for suspicion is sunlight.  
  
Other matters I propose to include are to co-operate closely (between
broadcasters) to maximize the efficiency of public broadcasting in Australia
(as identified in the SBS Act) and to set out each year the steps the Board
has taken to meet its statutory obligations including that in section 8(1)(c)
of the ABC Act " to ensure that the gathering and presentation by the
Corporation of news and information is accurate and impartial according to the
recognised standards of objective journalism."  
  
This last point is a very important one, and I acknowledge Mr Spigelman's
recent reviews of the ABC's news coverage of certain issues.  
  
But it is widely thought (including by many people who either write to me or
write about me) that the Minister is responsible for ensuring that the ABC's
news and current affairs is accurate and impartial.  
  
The Government does not and should never have any control over the news and
current affairs of the ABC or SBS. Mr Putin's model of media management is no
more admirable than his foreign policy.  
  
But their boards are responsible for their objectivity and accuracy. I have on
occasions heard directors say "they do not want to get involved" Well if they
do not want to get involved they should resign. The Board of each broadcaster
has that responsibility and must discharge it, and be seen diligently to
discharge it.  
  
We all expect a lot from our national broadcasters. We have every right to –
projected expenditure of $6.6 billion over the next five years, after the
proposed savings I've outlined today, represents a significant commitment by
taxpayers to these two organisations by any reasonable measure.  
  
It is the Australian people who will judge whether or not they are getting
value for money. It is the millions of citizens who tune in to ABC or SBS each
week who will decide whether the Government should continue to invest billions
of dollars in these two great national institutions on their behalf.  
  
To their credit the ABC and SBS are well loved and well trusted – certainly
much more so than any political party, minister or furious columnist. And as
I've noted before, the role of the public broadcasters in our national life
today is more important than ever, as the business model of the newspapers in
particular is under threat and newsrooms dwindle.  
  
With this growing importance comes pressure for both ABC and SBS to uphold
even higher standards of balance and integrity in their coverage - and, as
I've discussed today, to demonstrate even greater professionalism,
transparency and efficiency in their handling of scarce public resources.  
  
If the management of the ABC think they cannot find a 5% saving through
efficiencies, they are selling themselves short and letting down the people of
whose resources and trust they are the custodians.Charismatic new leaders in the world’s two most populous nations, President Xi
of China and Prime Minister Modi of India, are this year pressing ahead with
ambitious economic and political reform plans.  
  
President Xi is taking on two of China’s most daunting challenges: re-
balancing the world’s second largest economy away from investment and towards
consumption , and tackling the corrosive, pervasive corruption that, as the
President acknowledges, threatens to undermine the Beijing regime’s
legitimacy.  
  
Across the Himalayas, Prime Minister Modi has promised to “cut the red tape
and roll out the red carpet” – upending stereotypes of bureaucratic and
protectionist India, and striving for a return to growth rates achieved
between 2003 and 2011[1]  
  
In Tokyo too, an new/old leader , Shinzo Abe, plans to finally achieve
structural reform of his economy’s notoriously inefficient services sector as
the third arrow in the Abenomics quiver.  
  
In the past year Australia concluded Free Trade Agreements with South Korea,
Japan and China, three of our four top trading partners[2]. Trade Minister
Andrew Robb is now shuttling between Canberra and Delhi negotiating a similar
agreement with India.  
  
Prime Minister Modi enthusiastically endorsed this goal during his recent
visit Australia in which he packed out arenas usually reserved for the likes
of Taylor Swift and One Direction.  
  
While Australia has been busy on the bilateral front, we’re also working
closely with the United States and other nations to advance the Trans Pacific
Partnership, the ambitious twelve-nation regional trade and investment treaty
proposed by the US.  
  
The TPP has grown in importance given the failure to conclude the WTO’s Doha
round.  
  
Needless to say, the effectiveness of the TPP will be considerably enhanced by
the inclusion of China whose constructive participation in regional elements
is a central element in its peaceful rise.  
  
Across the entire Asia-Pacific, cross-border flows of goods, services and
capital are not only increasing, but becoming ever more free. That brings
complications, specific challenges for our developed economies (which I will
outline shortly), and a new role for political leaders in unraveling
complexity.  
  
The big picture: emerging Asia’s economic rise  
  
The rebooting of India, economic rebalancing in China, structural reform in
Japan, and continued liberalisation of trade and investment. These are four
complex but vitally important issues for the Asia-Pacific. I’ll speak more
about them shortly, particularly free trade.  
  
But first I should note the to note that beyond these immediate events shaping
the near-term outlook for the Asia-Pacific lies a much bigger story. That of
course is the great geopolitical transformation of our time – the economic
rise of emerging Asia, ex Japan, led by China[3].  
  
Obviously the questions posed by emerging Asia’s rise are pivotal to the
future of the Asia-Pacific:  
  
● How quickly will these economies expand in the next few years, and what
reforms are required to rekindle the rapid catch-up growth of the early 21st
century? (and by catch-up growth I mean the process by which developing
economies converge with the productivity of developed economies)  
  
● What will the global distribution of economic production look like when the
most rapid phase of catch-up growth has run its course in China, India and
Indonesia?  
  
● How will tensions along the way be handled, including those arising from the
inevitable translation of enlarged economic resources into enhanced military
power?  
  
● What are the implications for the environment, and for supply and demand for
natural resources?  
  
● And how ready are Western nations and Western-dominated multilateral
institutions to adapt to a very different distribution of global power than
that which they’ve been used to?  
  
Whilst I have framed this as the Indian and Chinese economies growing to
catch-up with developed nations, we should remember that from antiquity until
as late as the mid 19th century, China and India were the two biggest global
economies, typically accounting for 40 to 50 per cent of world GDP according
to the economic historian Angus Maddison[4].  
  
So while some in the West struggle with the very thought of a future where
China and India are two of the world’s three largest economies, the Chinese
and Indians are likely to view it as a return to the status quo ante.  
  
Of course decisive shifts in the relative resources controlled by great powers
are not always benign transitions. Change produces anxiety, suspicion and all
too often conflict, as Thucydides reminded us 2500 years ago. Historically,
increased economic power has been accompanied, after a lag that can range from
years to decades, by broadly commensurate increases in diplomatic influence,
military capabilities, capacity to develop and combine complex
technologies…and in due course in ‘soft’ power – the ability to project (and
influence) values and culture.  
  
We shouldn’t expect the rise of Asia’s two largest powers to be any different
– and we already see increasingly sophisticated military capabilities in
China, including indigenously developed stealth fighters and drones, as well
as the means to project military force beyond its immediate neighbourhood.  
  
The speed of Asia’s rise, culture differences between East and West (and the
lingering effects of colonialism) could exacerbate the likelihood of conflict.
This transition in global power will be a very different hand-off than from
Britain to the US a century or so earlier.  
  
Some suggest China will in time invoke a latter day Monroe Doctrine asserting
its hemispherical primacy as the United States did nearly two hundred years
ago. But this analogy is quite inapt. The Western Hemisphere in 1823 consisted
of the United States of America, the British colonies in Canada and an
assortment of struggling, weak, unstable Latin American colonies which had
either just become independent or were seeking to be so. The Western Pacific
today on the other hand, apart from China, includes a nuclear power in Russia,
the world’s third largest economy in Japan, the world’s fourth most populous
nation in Indonesia not to speak of other powerful, rapidly developing powers.
The construct of the Western Pacific as a lake in which there are only two
players - the US and China - is just dead wrong.  
  
China has under President Xi both sought to build stronger ties with countries
in the region, including Australia, and at the same time firmly restated
China’s claim to various islands, reefs and shoals in both the East and South
China Seas.  
  
This maritime muscularity is very different from the approach to various
disputed land borders a decade ago, which saw, for example, the settlement of
the border between Russia and China.  
  
While Chinese strategic thought is especially sophisticated in its view of
contradiction, there seems little doubt that the tough line on the disputed
islands and reefs has been quite counter productive. It has served to do no
more than remind China’s neighbours of the importance of a strong continuing
American presence as a counter balance to China.  
  
If China’s objective is to reduce America’s military presence and strategic
influence in the region it would be resolving all these disputes swiftly and
peacefully with a view to reassuring its neighbours that they had nothing to
fear as China’s military power comes to match its economic might.  
  
There are some signs that President Xi is rethinking China’s maritime strategy
along these lines, but a lot will depend whether and to what extent he can
control the various Chinese maritime security actors which have, in the past,
been pushing their own agendas[5]. And it will be harder to reassure Asian
neighbours about China’s growing military in 2015 than it was in 2009.  
  
2015 is also the seventieth anniversary of the end of World War II and
commemoration could stir bitter memories, especially between China and Japan.
President Abe will need to show a masterful contrition that tacks elegantly
between Chinese, and Korean, grievance on the one hand and Japanese pride on
the other.  
  
Increasing interdependence of the global economy and technology-enabled flows
of ideas are countervailing forces to the various tensions I have outlined
here and could well reduce the chances of miscalculation, mistake, and
conflict. But they bring with them new challenges for countries like Australia
and America.  
  
Convergence, globalisation and high-wage democracies  
  
These are the most exciting times in human history - the pace and velocity of
change and the opportunities so presented are literally without precedent. The
technology of connectivity has raced ahead of our own imagination as to how to
use it, not to speak of our understanding as to how to govern it. Already most
people in the developed world are connected to the Internet 24/7, before long
most people everywhere will be and, increasingly, billions of things too.  
  
At the same time, rising incomes and living standards across many less
developed economies (but particularly in emerging Asia) are multiplying the
potential market for every commodity, every manufacture, every service, and
every technology. Within one to two decades there will be more middle class
consumers in Asia than anywhere else. As developing nations catch up with
developed, as economies converge and the globe integrates, competition has
become truly worldwide. Surf shops in Santa Monica must compete with online
sales from Shenzhen factories. Workers must compete too. Highly skilled jobs,
highly sophisticated production lines and highly valued intellectual property
are no longer the preserve of high-wage developed countries.  
  
The economist Michael Spence points out that globalisation was long seen as
having a benign impact on the distribution of income in advanced nations, but
no longer: “As the developing countries became larger and richer, their
economic structures changed in response to the forces of comparative
advantage: they moved up the value-added chain. Now, developing countries
increasingly produce the kind of high-value-added components that 30 years ago
were the exclusive purview of advanced economies. This climb is a permanent,
irreversible change.”[6]  
  
Spence’s work suggests that between 1990 and 2008, 97 per cent of the 27
million jobs created in the US were in what he categorises as the non-traded
sector, 40 percent of them for example in government and health care. In the
stagnant traded sectors, increased opportunities at the top of the value chain
for highly-paid and highly-skilled workers – engineers in Cupertino or
creatives in Westside Los Angeles – are offset by much larger decreases in
routine jobs, as these functions relocate to emerging markets[7].  
  
While US firms in sectors such as finance or technology generate more value-
added than ever, most is from complex tasks such as management, design and
engineering. This literally rings true –it’s written on the smart phones many
of you are carrying: “Designed in California, assembled in China.”  
  
Meanwhile improved communications and information technology are exposing
previously protected sectors in most advanced economies to competition: not
just call centres or low-level software, but semi-professional and
professional services – the likes of financial analysis and accounting,
editing and sub-editing, technology and business process consulting, graphic
design and video special effects[8].  
  
How should governments in high-wage high-cost countries respond?  
  
Let me preface this discussion by noting it is wrong to ascribe all or most of
difficulty that most of the advanced democracies currently face making fiscal
ends meet and achieving structural reform to increased competition from
emerging economies. On the contrary these problems are in large part of our
own making.  
  
But realistic governments in advanced economies can’t be blind to the impact
of convergence, technological catch-up, and growing competition across a range
of sectors from the skilled, productive workforces and sophisticated,
innovative producers we see in emerging Asia and elsewhere. Every year the
list of trade-exposed sectors gets longer. These forces are exacerbating the
fiscal and demographic problems democracies already face with their high
incomes, high costs, high tax burdens, high levels of regulatory intervention,
and generous social welfare programs. So too in many cases, unrealistically
high expectations among voters and politicians alike as to the sustainability
of the status quo. Many of the policies and premises of the past are already
unsustainable.  
  
So amidst a all this, how do countries like Australia and the US maintain our
wage levels, our social safety nets, our first world economies?  
  
Answers are easy to describe, hard to execute.  
  
Arguably the first challenge is to get the message out there – watchfully
monitoring and carefully, clearly explaining that the emerging challenges
posed by globalization, convergence, and rapid technological change are all
forces that are not going to go away or able to be somehow resisted.  
  
Governments therefore must remain relentlessly focused on the challenge of
maintaining economic prosperity and competitiveness. It means acknowledging if
popular programs are unsustainable or undermine these economic objectives.
Many would add it means taking unpopular decisions, I would rephrase that by
saying it means taking decisions which may not be popular but will be accepted
because the public understands why they have to be taken.  
  
Leaders must be decision makers, but they must also be, above all, explainers
and advocates, unravelling complex issues in clear language that explains why
things have to change and why the Government cannot solve every problem.  
  
As many mid level manufacturing and administrative jobs have been competed
away - whether by other nations or new technologies - we have seen slower
growth in middle class income, most notably here in the United States.  
  
It is vitally important, both as a matter of social justice and political
reality, that structural changes are seen as being fair across the board. That
means not only must tough decisions be justified, but that the burden of
adjustment is not borne disproportionately by one part of the community. They
key to this is not simple wealth redistribution (as many on the Left would
assert) but rather ensuring that good jobs are available to as many as can
work. As our former Prime Minister John Howard used to say "the best form of
social welfare is a job."  
  
To prosper, with full employment, in the new world individuals and companies
alike need to be smarter, more adaptable, more competitive, more productive,
more innovative and more technologically sophisticated. That challenge is well
understood by Californians, whose technological imagination has in large part
created the modern world.  
  
But governments can’t bestow these qualities on individuals or companies, any
more than they can magically wave new job-creating industries into being or
vanquish the competition emerging in so many sectors from so many sources.  
  
What they can do is invest effectively in enablers of a sophisticated,
adaptable economy – in beneficial areas such as skills and training,
education, research and economically justified infrastructure.  
  
In the crucial area of education and research, encouragement for excellence is
important – but perhaps even more important is ensuring less able students
gain the strongest possible skills and grounding, given they are most
vulnerable to being left behind by the economic shifts underway.  
  
Australian schools and universities should be matching the performance of the
world’s leading systems – yet according to one widely used measure, the OECD’s
PISA study of comparative performance in secondary schooling, it is our
failures in teaching the least capable, least advantaged students in our
community that force us to settle for the mediocrity of middle of the pack,
where the same measure also places the US.  
  
In the US, of course, any weaknesses in secondary education are overshadowed
by the world’s strongest and most flexible and market-driven universities and
colleges, which are a crucial catalyst for the most innovative parts of the US
economy.  
  
The Australian government is currently proposing reforms to give Australia’s
universities similar flexibility and scope for specialization.  
  
Those opposed to these reforms decline even to acknowledge the role that
successful, diverse, market-driven universities with strong links to industry
play in the US and a few other countries in driving technological advances,
originating intellectual property that can be commercialised and taken to
market, and generating startup ventures.  
  
When we look at the role played in the Californian (and US) economies by the
likes of Stanford, Berkeley and CalTech, it is hard to believe these reforms
are being so strenuously resisted.  
  
What else can governments do? They can lead by example – for example in their
own use of IT, or their own innovation in service delivery or other
operations. Last week the Prime Minister and I announced the establishment of
a Digital Transformation Office whose mission it will be to ensure that
citizens can engage with their Government on the end to end digital platforms
just as they do their banking, their shopping and so much else besides.  
  
Governments can also influence culture, by recognizing certain types of
success and with their communication.  
  
But perhaps most importantly, governments can get the basics right – by
pursuing policies that encourage macroeconomic stability, by balancing
budgets, by investing capital prudently and efficiently, by avoiding public
sector activities that the private sector can do better, and by ensuring open
and competitive markets. One of the few factors which virtually all economists
who have analyzed the ‘East Asian miracle’ agree contributed significantly to
the remarkable growth the four tigers achieved from the 1960s to the 1990s was
the success all four governments had in getting fundamentals right.  
  
Governments probably need to do all of these things. The pressure being
exerted on what we traditionally think of as domestic policies by the economic
rise of less developed economies (and, I might add, by technological advances)
are unlikely to abate – in fact there is reason to expect they will grow.  
  
Free trade and openness  
  
As well as doing the right things, governments must avoid doing the wrong
things. This in particular means rejecting protectionism and other populist
remedies. As economists have demonstrated over a long period, these harm
rather than help prosperity. Australians conducted a controlled experiment on
this between 1901 and the early 1980s, and we can verify that it doesn’t work
out in the long run.  
  
If we believe ever-closer global economic integration is one means of ensuring
the current shift in relative economic influence remains peaceful, that is
further reason to eschew populism, and support a renewed commitment to
economic integration, open borders and the free flow of goods, services,
capital and ideas.  
  
These are issues where the Australian Government has been able to make
significant progress, as I noted earlier. The three free trade deals concluded
by Andrew Robb in the past year account for around 40 per cent of Australia’s
international trade[9]. If we add these to pre-existing Free Trade deals
signed by Australia with economies including the US, New Zealand, Singapore,
Thailand, Malaysia and Chile, more than 60 per cent of our international trade
is now covered by such agreements.  
  
The three recent agreements are very good trade deals – and vitally important
for Australia as our economy shifts away from a boom in mining investment and
heavy reliance upon commodity exports to more broadly based growth.  
  
One of the great errors of Australian policy in the past decade was to mistake
the very elevated prices for commodity exports which we saw at the peak of the
China-driven resources boom as a permanent shift in our terms of trade, rather
than the temporary result of a particularly resource-intensive phase of
China’s development and a resulting period where for certain resources supply
badly lagged demand.  
  
Supply (including a large expansion of capacity in Australia in the case of
our key resource exports) eventually caught up and growth in demand slowed.
Prices for resources remain much higher than in the 1990s, but much lower than
they were at the peak.  
  
The Australian economist Saul Eslake persuasively argues that perhaps no other
country is more exposed to a single export market than Australia to China.
Around 78 per cent of our exports go to Asia, where most economies are closely
integrated with China, while 36 per cent go directly to China[10]. There’s
little prospect of the Chinese economy resuming such resource-intensive,
infrastructure-led growth in the near future. So as China rebalances,
Australia too will need to readjust.  
  
So one of the most positive parts of the FTA with China is that it will see
trade barriers removed over a decade in several areas where Australia has a
strong competitive advantage – including key agricultural products like dairy,
beef, wine and seafood. Australia also has a surplus with China in services of
almost $7 billion a year, and services too are covered by the deal.  
  
The three deals of the past year align with a trend in the Asia-Pacific toward
an ever-growing number of bilateral and multilateral agreements. A study by
the East-West Center shows that in 2000 there were only 4 free trade deals in
place among APEC members – but a decade later there were almost 40, with even
more concluded since then[11].  
  
The many agreements in place should make a broad-based and enduring regional
agreement easier to negotiate – but the crucial element needed is leadership.
This is why the Trans Pacific Partnership process, which involves economies
accounting for 40 per cent of world GDP, is so important.  
  
Most of us in this room understand the large economic gains achievable from
freer trade. One study puts the gains from the TPP for all 12 participants at
$223 billion a year[12]. But I also want to dwell on what we might describe as
the indirect gains from liberalised markets. President Obama touched on this
in his recent speech in Brisbane, where he noted the purpose of trade is not
simply to secure resources but to build partnerships that raise living
standards, give entrepreneurs the opportunity to flourish and empower
individuals[13].  
  
Engagement and exceptionalism  
  
Australia’s trade liberalisation ties in with a much broader story of
engagement and increasing openness to our region. So let me conclude by
reflecting a little on Australian exceptionalism.  
  
Australia is a diverse and prosperous society with high wages, a very high
standard of living, and a generous (but in the main carefully targeted) social
safety net.  
  
Over the past 70 years Australia welcomed millions of immigrants from more
than 200 countries, and in doing so become arguably the world’s most
successful multicultural society. Three in every ten Australian residents were
born outside our borders; only two, much smaller, developed countries have a
higher proportion of foreign-born residents, and none have populations of
equivalent diversity[14].  
  
This diversity has been achieved, for the most part, with social harmony and
economic inclusion – unemployment rates, for instance, are virtually identical
among migrants and native-born Australians.  
  
Like Americans, Australians do not define national identity by reference to
race, religion or a particular culture. Rather, our identify is grounded in a
shared commitment to common civic values – democracy, the rule of law,
engrained scepticism toward government, lack of deference to authority, and
above all a peculiarly Australian brand of egalitarianism often summed up as
“the right to a fair go.”  
  
Much like the wider Asia Pacific – from Tasmania to Tianjin, Chuhotka to
California, Sydney to Santiago – Australians are increasingly diverse. This is
a valuable asset in a world where economic activity is ever more widely
dispersed – it isn’t an exaggeration to say that our greatest riches are not
under the ground, but walking upon it.  
  
Across the region there is a lot riding on political reform. I have mentioned
China, India and Japan, but in Indonesia new President Jokowi is tackling
structural reform including, as Xi is, entrenched corruption. Myanmar is
facing the first free election for many decades and Thailand too is in the
midst of a difficult transition to a stable democratic government.  
  
All of these challenges and currents of change, dynamic and unpredictable,
will be helped to a better resolution by strong and continued American
engagement in the region. The Obama Administration’s pivot to Asia is a
vitally important stabilising, reassuring factor in the peaceful development
of our region.  
  
And this, I should add, means a lot more than fleets and planes. The United
States has been pre-occupied for many years with the wars in the Middle East
and Central Asia and the need for its attention to those troubled regions will
be, I fear, enduring.  
  
But the main game, the highest stakes, the most to win or lose is in the Asia
Pacific. That is the new centre of the global economy and America, a Pacific
nation, has as much skin in this great game as any of us in Australia.  
  
The scarcest resource is not military might or dollars. It is the time and
attention of our leaders. As this conference recognizes, it has never been
more important for America’s leaders, above all, to be engaged, aware,
committed to the Asia Pacific.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (19:18): The siege in the
Lindt cafe was an extraordinary moment in time for the city of Sydney. It
affected everybody in that city—my city—and all Australians. We see tragedies
and sieges in the news all the time of course, but this was occurring in such
a familiar place, right in the heart of our city, right in Martin Place and in
a cafe—the most normal, innocuous, natural place. Anyone could imagine
themselves having been there themselves. This was not in a far off location;
this was right in the heart of our city. So it shocked the city.  
  
  
  
Yet on the night of the 15th, the first day of the siege, I think most of us
went to bed praying but also hoping that the siege would be resolved
peacefully, as most sieges are. There was a sense of anxious optimism. Then of
course we woke up to the news that the gunman had shot one of the hostages,
Tori Johnson, the manager—a really wonderful young man, a very brave young
man—and in the firefight that followed the terrorist was killed and tragically
Katrina Dawson was killed. Katrina Dawson was also a young person, one of the
most brilliant young barristers at the Sydney bar and a mother of three. The
loss and tragedy for her family is indescribable.  
  
That morning was a real shock for the city. It was stunning. I remember so
vividly catching the train from Edgecliff to North Sydney. On the two trains I
was on—I changed trains at town hall—there was an extraordinary mood that was
so palpable you could almost reach out and touch it. People were not talking
to each other; they were deep inside their own hearts. They were thinking. You
could read their minds. They were filled with a determined love. There was no
hatred there. There was no anger there, remarkably. You could just feel the
compassion. It was as though the city had decided that it had been confronted
with the most crazy, vicious, death-loving hatred and had decided to respond
with love—not a wishy-washy love but a love that was determined, that was
strong and saying: 'We will not bow to your hatred. We are better than you.
Our values are better than you. Our love is stronger than your hate.' That is
what I felt in that train.  
  
A little later in the day there was a mass at St Mary's Cathedral that I
attended. Again you could feel that there. You could feel the love of Christ
in that cathedral in a way that, regrettably, you do not always feel in
church. It was full of love. So much hatred had caused so much harm and death
in Martin Place, but there in the rest of the city it was filled with love.
Then you saw in Martin Place people coming, laying their flowers, showing
their strength, showing their solidarity and showing that love is always
stronger than hate.  
  
I have never been so proud to be an Australian and I have never been so proud
to be a Sydneysider. It would have been so easy for people just to dissolve in
a sea of hatred and antagonism. We run ourselves down a bit—we are always
knocking ourselves, Australians. We are a great country and we are a really
good people, and we showed our goodness in the wake of that siege. We showed
that love is stronger than hatred. We showed that we are not going to play to
the tune of the terrorist because—what does the terrorist want to do? What is
the terrorist's objective?  
  
The terrorist's objective is to create a frightening sensation and, as the
member for La Trobe said, 'To scare people out of their ordinary lives.' The
whole city and the whole nation said: 'No, life goes on. Yes, we will be
vigilant. Yes, we will take care, of course.' And we will do everything we
can, as our government does, as the Prime Minister has said, to ensure that
our security and police services have the resources to prevent incidents like
this wherever they can be prevented. But above all our strongest armour is not
with the police. Our strongest armour is in our heart. It is that strength of
that determined love that is the greatest challenge to the hatred of the death
loving terrorism that has caused the appalling siege in Martin Place.  
  
So this is a terrible tragedy and the House extend its condolences on behalf
of the whole nation to the families of Tori Johnson and Katrina Dawson, and we
extend our love to all of the people that have been affected by this—all those
hostages. Who could imagine a more terrifying time than being bailed up in
that cafe with the gunman, not knowing whether you are about to be blown up or
shot, not knowing how a resolution could come. In passing on our condolences,
we also affirm our solidarity. It is wonderful that there is such bipartisan
solidarity on this.  
  
We disagree so often in this place—and we are, after all, paid to disagree,
and it would be a pretty poor democracy if we all had the same view. But on
this I know that every member of this House, every member of the Senate and
every Australian is absolutely united in that determined love—love that
triumphs over hate—and a determination not to be cowed, not to be bullied and
not to be led into an orgy of retaliation and hatred. That is only playing
into the hands of the terrorists, because that is what they want us to do.
They want to frighten us and they want to drive us into a reactive hatred.
They want us to be like them. They want us to be as hate filled as them. We
defy them with love. We defy them with a determined love.Let me begin with the central issue. Australians live in a prosperous
developed nation with high wages and a very high standard of living.[1] We
have a generous social welfare safety net which for the most part is carefully
targeted.  
  
While we are an enterprising market economy, progressive income taxes and
means testing of virtually all working-age social payments result in much less
inequality in after-tax incomes than comparable societies such as the United
States or the United Kingdom.[2]  
  
But wages, living standards and social safety nets in developed nations around
the world are under pressure – from the need to reduce budget deficits given
high levels of debt in many countries, from emerging market competitors to
long-established industries, and from ageing workforces.  
  
Australia is no exception. So in the face of these pressures, how do we
maintain our relatively high standard of living? How can we ensure our
children and their children will have even greater opportunities and higher
incomes than we enjoy?  
  
We secure our future prosperity by embracing the future, not running from it.
By engaging with the world as it is, not as we want it to be or imagine it
once was. By making volatility and change our friend, not our foe.  
  
We secure our future prosperity by being confident and not fearful, innovative
and not complacent, and by being thoroughly Australian – disrespectful of
authority, lacking in deference, unafraid to call it how we see it if current
practice or accepted wisdom are not cutting it. I am passionately committed to
freedom of speech but if I was going to ban one phrase it would be ‘not
invented here’.  
  
We secure our future prosperity by telling the unadorned truth about the
Budget – by honestly and accurately describing our circumstances, and setting
out credible and fair options for bringing outlays and revenue back into
balance.  
  
Above all we secure our future prosperity by making sustained economic growth
our central objective and ensuring we have a coherent and credible plan for
achieving it. Responsible economic leadership demands nothing less.  
  
We must never forget, however, that economic growth or Budget repair are not
goals in themselves but simply means to end. Growth provides us with higher
living standards and greater opportunities to freely to pursue our dreams.
Budget consolidation preserves flexibility and optionality for future
generations.  
  
I’ll get back to the Budget shortly but first let’s consider the bigger
picture.  
  
Australia in the world  
  
There’s never been a more exciting time to be alive. The pace of change,
supercharged by information and communications technologies, is exhilarating.
Every day, “the old order changeth, yielding place to new”.  
  
Yes there are emerging challenges, especially for a medium-sized high-income
market economy such as Australia. But remember, we aren’t a minnow; we possess
the 12th largest economy in the world.[3] We’re creative, we’re innovative,
and increasingly we think globally.  
  
We need to be all of this and more, because times of increasing competition
and rapid change are as much times of immense opportunity for the quick-witted
as they are times of immense risk for the slow and the complacent.  
  
The big engines of change in the world today are economic convergence (catch-
up growth in emerging economies whose low skill workforces are now
increasingly high skill), global economic integration (underpinned by the
Internet, sophisticated supply chains and logistics, and specialization) and
rapid technological change. Examples of their impact abound:  
  
● The Apple iPhone 6 includes components made by 785 suppliers in 31 countries
(none of them Australian) and accounts for about 5 per cent of Japan’s exports
of electronics.[4]  
  
● The arrival of AirBNB increased the rooms available to visitors in Australia
by about 10,000 without a single brick being laid or Government approval being
granted.[5]  
  
● In calendar 2014 the number of active mobile wireless devices almost
certainly passed the number of humans (7.2 billion) on the planet.[6]  
  
Every day more jobs, industries and businesses in Australia become trade-
exposed, competing with the rest of the world in a way that was unimaginable a
few years ago. Even in non-traded sectors, technological change is the great
disruptor, from newspapers to taxis.  
  
To succeed in this environment individuals and businesses need to be smart and
nimble, productive and innovative, creative and global. They need to see
disruption as an opportunity to reach into other markets or become more
efficient within our own.  
  
The most advanced and technologically sophisticated economies tend to be very
open, highly competitive markets. Producers are specialized, compete on
differentiation, and have intimate knowledge of customer needs. There are
strong linkages between complementary sectors and between businesses and
universities, deep pools of skilled workers, executives and investors, and
geographic clusters of high-value activity.[7]  
  
These are attributes and characteristics that arise organically, through the
behaviour and initiative of firms and individuals and the free operation of
open markets, not by design. They are way beyond the remit of Government – and
should be. An economy of this sort depends upon a dynamic and entrepreneurial
culture that encourages innovation and diversity, tolerates risk and failure,
and copes easily with uncertainty and ambiguity.  
  
Governments can lead by example – for example in their own use of IT, or
innovation in service delivery. That’s why we’ve recently established the
Digital Transformation Office which will ensure that all frequently performed
transactions with Government can be undertaken digitally by 2017. Remember the
public sector is a third of our economy; every gain in productivity not only
saves taxpayer dollars but lifts the productivity of every business or citizen
interacting with it.  
  
Governments can also contribute by maximising the impact of their spending on
enablers that generate positive economic spillovers, such as education and
skills, scientific and medical research, and infrastructure with clear,
demonstrable economic or social returns.  
  
An education system that encourages excellence but also focuses heavily on
ensuring less able students receive the best possible training and skills is a
particularly crucial enabler, as it is the less skilled cohorts of the
workforce most at risk from a converging global marketplace. Until now, we
have increased Australia’s human capital by pushing a rising share of each age
group through school, college and university; as process approaches its limit,
it is by only by lifting the quality of education that we can compete.  
  
The currently proposed deregulation of universities, which provides more
flexibility and scope for specialisation, is also an important reform given
tight linkages between higher education, research and business in countries
with highly technologically sophisticated economies.  
  
But in the end the key leadership in building a more diverse, adaptable
economy must come from the companies and individuals whose success and
achievements bring it into being.  
  
The best contribution governments ultimately make is to get out of the way,
except where they enhance rather than constrain the freedom and motivation
that drive entrepreneurship and innovation. Government must help set the
table, not determine the menu or cook the meal.  
  
That is why we are repealing Labor’s misconceived laws on employee shares
which so disadvantaged start-ups. It’s why we are repealing volumes of costly
or obsolete red tape. And it is why we are working to return the Budget to
balance without tax rises that harm incentives.  
  
The Budget problem  
  
In September 2013 the Coalition Government inherited a Federal Budget that had
been heavily in deficit for six years and was projected to remain that way for
at least another decade.[8]  
  
The immediate reason for the deterioration from the Budget position left
behind by the Howard Government was not difficult to identify. If we compare
Peter Costello’s final budget in 2007-08 to Wayne Swan’s final Budget in
2013-14, we see that over Labor’s six years in office:[9]  
  
● Spending rose from $272 billion to $411 billion – an increase of $139
billion.  
  
● Revenue rose from $295 billion to $363 billion – an increase of $68 billion.  
  
So under Labor, for every $1 in new revenue, the Government committed to $2 of
new spending.  
  
Dire as the recent past appeared, the near future looked worse. Labor had
committed to several high-profile promises that if delivered would vastly
increase outlays over the next decade, with much of their cost conveniently
hidden beyond the Budget’s four-year forward estimates window.  
  
Kevin Rudd’s 2010 deal with the states to fund hospitals, Julia Gillard’s 2013
‘Gonski’ reforms to schools funding, and the National Disabilities Insurance
Scheme (NDIS) are the iconic examples.  
  
According to the Parliamentary Budget Office, these three types of spending
will have a joint annual cost of $73 billion by 2023-24 (equal to 14 per cent
of total Budget outlays).[10]  
  
However well intentioned the policy goals – and the case for the NDIS, to take
one example, is surely compelling – these heroic commitments were made just as
a flood tide of revenue from the resources boom was ebbing away. Now those
promises stand out, like ships stuck on the mud, mocking the previous
Government’s naivete for making them and our credulity for believing there was
enough revenue to pay for it all.  
  
But it wasn’t just new programmes. Spending on existing social payments was
also projected to surge, in many cases reflecting wider eligibility, more
generous rates or the inclusion of new services. Consider these forecasts from
the Parliamentary Budget Office:[11]  
  
● In 2003-04, at the start of the resources boom, the age pension cost $18
billion. Last year we spent $39 billion. A decade from now the cost of the age
pension will be $64 billion. Yes, there are more elderly Australians – but
that is still a huge increase.  
  
● In 2003-04, the Government spent $1.5 billion on childcare and parental
leave. Last year we spent $7 billion. A decade from now, we will spend $18
billion. That twelve-fold increase is despite modest growth in the cohort of
children with working parents.  
  
● In 2003-04, the Government spent $8 billion on Medicare. Last year we spent
$19 billion. A decade from now, we will spend $34 billion.  
  
How did spending rise so quickly, with even larger increases in prospect? Why
did Labor commit to costly new programs plainly beyond the capacity of the
Budget to support without large tax increases?  
  
How is it the International Monetary Fund, echoing our own Treasury, judges we
currently have a structural Budget deficit – that is, a deficit after
adjusting to remove the effects of the economic cycle – of $48 billion or 3
per cent of GDP despite our having avoided recession during the GFC and
enjoying our most sustained period of favourable terms of trade in history?  
  
Essentially, because from 2003-04 to 2013-14 the Budget received an
unprecedented windfall of roughly $460 billion, mostly on the revenue side,
during the initial phase of the resources boom.[12] Spending and tax cut
commitments rose rapidly, at first in line with the windfall, and and then
under Labor in excess of it.  
  
Treasurer Wayne Swan, speaking a language just steps away from the angry class
warfare of a century earlier, condemned ‘greedy billionaires’ and extolled the
merits of new spending initiatives to ‘spread the benefits of the boom’
(forgetting the exchange rate had already done this). A complacent optimism
had washed over us like a comforting warm bath.  
  
Unlike all previous booms this boom was going to persist.[13] The Budget mused
about prosperity underwritten by resources for ‘an extended period of
time’.[14] This time would be different.  
  
Except that it wasn’t.  
  
The nearly half-trillion dollar Budget windfall from the decade-long commodity
price rally proved temporary, like all such windfalls, and ended emphatically
with dramatic slumps in coal prices in 2013 and iron ore prices in 2014. But
as Chris Richardson at Deloitte Access Economics points out, the commitments
governments made during this period to income tax cuts or increased
expenditure, all premised on revenues no longer being collected, are
permanent.  
  
Or as the Secretary to the Treasury, John Fraser, said recently, echoing his
predecessor:  
  
The reality is that Australia has spent its way to a structural budget
problem. Government payments are growing faster than government revenues and
without action, this trend will continue.[15]  
  
So we’ve been living beyond our means, and since 2008-09 we’ve been borrowing
to fund the shortfall. Far from tightening our belts, however, under Labor we
made grand plans to live even further beyond our means in the near future.  
  
The inevitable result is debt. When the Howard Government lost office the
Federal Government had $45 billion of cash at the bank (equal to 4 per cent of
GDP). Seven years later, we are in net debt to the tune of $245 billion (or 14
per cent of GDP).[16]  
  
If we allow this situation to continue we will put the security of every
family and every business at risk. The deficits continue, our debt and
interest payments balloon - and all this at historically low interest rates.
What happens when rates rise again, as they assuredly will?  
  
When the global financial crisis struck in 2008 the fact that we had no net
Government debt gave Labor virtually unlimited flexibility to respond with
stimulus spending. How will we be placed if there is another GFC-like episode
but we have accumulated a mountain of public debt?  
  
Labor’s position is that our debt is low compared to other advanced economies.
What isn’t stated is that high debt levels are one reason those economies
suffered during the GFC and have experienced so anaemic a recovery since. Nor
does it recognise that Australia is not like Europe or the US – we are a small
economy dependent upon imported capital and exposed to massive external
shocks.  
  
Demographic change heightens these risks, as Treasury’s latest
Intergenerational Report makes clear. We know that as our population ages
there will be fewer and fewer workers to support a swelling number of
retirees. Today there are 4.5 Australians aged 15 to 64 for each person aged
65 and over. In 2035 that ratio will be 3.2, and by 2055 it will be just
2.7.[17] And it was 7.1 in 1970.  
  
We know claims on pensions, aged care and health services are going to grow.
We could and should prepare by living within our means today. But instead we
are doing the opposite, passing onto our children not just the expense of
supporting an army of retired baby boomers but also the cost of servicing the
debt we ran up because we ignored the financial realities of our times.  
  
Treasurer Joe Hockey’s 2014-15 Budget attempted to address these trends.
Evidently by doing so it disappointed many in the community.  
  
A number of its most important measures, which would have generated savings
over the forward estimates of more than $25 billion, have been unable to
secure support from the Senate cross benches and have been abandoned or
modified.  
  
It is in no way correct to say that the 2014-15 Budget was a failure. Many
measures, amounting to a net saving over the forward estimates of $16 billion,
have been passed. But we clearly haven’t been able to achieve the degree of
fiscal repair and reform that was and is needed.  
  
Why have the Budget measures been such a battle? At a mechanical, political
level the answer is that Labor, the Greens and others in the Senate refuse to
support them. That is their right.  
  
But it is to Labor’s enduring shame that as custodians of the Budget during a
period when almost three quarters of the resources boom revenue windfall
flooded in, they turned a starting point of $45 billion of cash into $245
billion in net debt by the time they left office. In opposition, they then
proceeded to block $25 billion of savings (including $5 billion they
themselves originally proposed) while cynically and irresponsibly declining to
offer a single alternative measure until the past week when they unveiled,
perhaps predictably, a plan for higher taxes.  
  
In the past fortnight, for the first time since the 2013 election, shadow
treasurer Chris Bowen and assistant shadow treasurer Andrew Leigh have at
least acknowledged there is a Budget deficit problem and promised an
alternative plan. We will see if they deliver. The acid test will be whether
Labor proposes a constructive alternative in the Budget-in-reply.  
  
I hope they do. We need an evidence-based, spin-free, fair dinkum debate about
the Budget position and what we should do to fix it. This May the spotlight
will be on Bill Shorten and Chris Bowen as much as it is on Tony Abbott and
Joe Hockey.  
  
The more fundamental problem the 2014-15 Budget faced was that the public was
not persuaded tough measures were necessary in the first place.  
  
We – and I include myself and every member of the Government in this criticism
– did not do a good enough job in explaining the scale of the fiscal problem
the nation faces, and the urgency of taking corrective action.  
  
In addition there was a deeply felt sense in much of the community that our
proposed Budget measures were unfair to people on lower incomes when taken as
a whole.  
  
In my view the failure to effectively make the case for Budget repair was our
biggest misstep, because it was a threshold we never crossed.  
  
Once you’ve explained an issue often enough that people understand there is a
genuine problem and “something” must be done, you can have an intelligent
discussion about what that something might be - and just as importantly, your
opponents will face public pressure to come up with their own “something” if
they are not prepared to support yours.  
  
But at least we have learned our lesson. The Intergenerational Report released
last week by Joe Hockey provides a solid platform from which to reboot the
Budget debate, and educate the public about the need for action.  
  
Economic management is how governments are judged  
  
It is important for the Coalition to make progress on the Budget and economic
reform. In Australia, governments delivering good economic and fiscal outcomes
are very rarely ejected. John Howard’s defeat in November 2007 (at the hands
of a self-professed fellow economic conservative who turned out to be anything
but) is a striking exception.  
  
Governments judged to be inept economic managers or presiding over recessions
(even recessions caused by global events) on the other hand seldom survive the
next election.[18]  
  
At the heart of this issue is confidence. It is critical that the public have
confidence economic management is in safe and competent hands. That means
policies need to be carefully thought through, painstakingly explained and be
robust enough to withstand rigorous policy debate.  
  
As I have said many times, the time for spin and slogans is over. The
Australian people want all of us in public life to respect them, by laying out
the challenges we face clearly and accurately, not insulting them with
exaggeration or oversimplification. They expect us to debate the options for
dealing with problems honestly, transparently and with open minds.  
  
This type of debate is a crucial element in allowing reform to be successfully
achieved without exorbitant costs from compensating losers. It’s how it
generally was achieved in the so-called reform era between 1983 and 2007.  
  
While the sequence varies from issue to issue, the case for a difficult reform
typically involves:  
  
● Highlighting a problem and clearly and repeatedly explaining the need for
reform.  
  
● Calculating the costs of inaction.  
  
● Setting out the various options for change.  
  
● Discussing their respective merits and disadvantages.  
  
● Choosing the best option and devising a plan to implement it.  
  
● Identifying losers from change and to the extent possible assisting them to
adjust.  
  
Two examples of reform: the NBN and Australia Post  
  
Let me briefly describe two instances of how I’ve followed this approach in my
own portfolio, starting with the National Broadband Network.  
  
With the NBN the first thing we threw out was ideology, lies and spin. We told
the truth about the project - with an independent Strategic Review completed
three months after the September 2013 election, by publishing weekly rollout
statistics, through requiring the company to provide detailed quarterly
financial and operational reports. In short we made NBN Co as open and
accountable as a publicly listed company.  
  
Only a few weeks ago the company published the true costs per premises of the
NBN fibre to the premises rollout to date. These costs were not $2200 - $2500
as was claimed by the former Labor Government in April 2013, but $3600. When
you take into account the capitalised costs of leasing ducts and pits (as one
should) the total rose to $4300. The increase from 2013 wasn’t a trifling
misunderstanding. Extra costs of that order add up to real money for a project
serving roughly 10 million premises.  
  
At the outset we explained our approach on the NBN was going to be pragmatic,
focussed on delivering households the broadband they want and were willing to
pay for. Rather than engaging in theological debates about fibre versus copper
versus other technologies, we would free the company to use whichever access
technology enabled it to finish the job as quickly and cheaply as possible.
Most end users accept this approach - and are happy to forgo Labor’s fibre
nirvana in favour of high speed broadband deployed sooner and costing less.  
  
Let me turn to Australia Post. Its letters business has lost $1.5 billion
since 2008. The decline reflects high fixed costs and fewer and fewer letters
being sent. Losses on letters have overwhelmed profits on parcels. If nothing
is done the business will need about $6.6 billion of subsidies from the Budget
over the next decade.[19]  
  
Regrettably, prior to September 2013 Australia Post’s problems had been
quietly kicked into the long grass. Upon becoming Minister I asked Post’s CEO
and Chairman to lay out the truth about its letters business in public, loudly
and repeatedly and they did so. We retained an independent firm, BCG, to
verify the scale of its problems. We engaged with employees, their unions,
franchisees and customers both large and small.  
  
So last week when we announced radical changes (stamp prices to rise to $1.00
and delivery times to slow down by two days) there was broad acceptance,
despite the pain involved.  
  
The problem had been explained and, it seems, understood. The concerns of
stakeholders (employees, Licensed Post Offices and consumers, especially in
the bush) were considered and addressed. Our reform proposal had been flagged
for months, nobody had come up with a better mousetrap, and so with regrets
all around just about everyone involved accepted that the alternatives were
even more painful, while this way, Australia Post does have a viable future.  
  
With the right groundwork, reform is still possible.  
  
This is as true for the Budget as anything else.Thank you Gary Nairn, it is a pleasure to be here for Locate15 and I thank the
Spatial Industries Business Association (SIBA), the Survey and Spatial
Sciences Institute (SSSI) and the Geospatial Information and Technology
Association (GITA) for organising this important event.  
  
It is fantastic to see the industry working together to deliver this annual
conference.  
  
Opening remarks  
  
Today I want to talk to you about the importance of making data openly
available to enable innovation.  
  
It is fitting that Locate15 is being held in Queensland’s capital, Brisbane,
as Queensland has shown great leadership in the areas of open data and
innovation  
  
The development of the Queensland Globe, a world-first application enabling
the public to access the State’s datasets and satellite imagery is one
example.  
  
Building on the success of the Queensland Globe, the State Government and the
Queensland University of Technology have formed a dynamic and powerful
partnership that has led to the creation of the Cube Globe.  
  
At nearly two storeys tall, the Cube Globe is the world’s largest digital
interactive installation and was used during the G20 Summit late last year –
allowing delegates and visitors to interact with and explore statistics, case
studies and other spatial information about Queensland[1].  
  
Queensland is also home to Australia’s first Open Data Institute, which has
been established to link all sectors of the economy and nurture an open data
culture and capability.  
  
Research institutions, industry and academia have partnered with the Institute
to realise the opportunities presented by open data - to drive economic,
social and environmental prosperity[2].  
  
Last August, I spoke at the GovHack red carpet awards night, which was hosted
here in Brisbane.  
  
One of the local Brisbane teams - AussieMon - built an online game based on
Pokemon, but which uses Australian animals and in the process educates young
people about them. Another team built an app for Google glass so that when you
put on the glasses, you see your surrounds as they were 100 years ago, using
historic photos and materials sourced from various government agencies[3].  
  
As I said on that night, there are few things I find more inspiring than
watching a group of young coders - some of them barely old enough to be in
high school - working on the next app or program that will improve peoples’
lives.  
  
The most scarce resource in the digital age is not access to capital or
technology itself. The scarcest resource is imagination - disruptive,
insurgent, radical imagination.  
  
And that is why events like this are so important. It does take cultural
change - particularly from governments - to harness the ideas and the
creativity that you see in those young hackers I met at GovHack.  
  
The future is not something we should seek to 'proof' ourselves against -
change and uncertainty are things that we should embrace. We must be open to
new challenges and, most importantly, we must be flexible and agile, treating
volatility as an opportunity not a threat.  
  
Role of government  
  
Governments have an important role to play in driving innovation across the
economy.  
  
Of course we must get the fundamentals right to ensure that all levers, be
they taxation or investment in research, education and infrastructure, are
pulling in the same direction.  
  
To capitalise on the opportunities of innovation and productivity, we must
continue to build our knowledge and proficiency in science, technology,
engineering and maths to compete in an increasingly competitive, globalised
and trade-exposed world.  
  
But we must also lead by example – to get in there and innovate ourselves by
delivering our services online in a compelling and engaging way.  
  
If we are serious about promoting the benefits of digital innovation, as a
government we need to improve the quality and availability of our own
services.  
  
This includes opening up and releasing government data that would otherwise
only be collecting dust in digital cupboards.  
  
Digital Transformation Office  
  
That is why the Prime Minister and I recently announced that we will be
establishing a Digital Transformation Office (DTO) - to improve the quality
and availability of government services and to ensure that all major services
can be completed digitally from start to finish by 2017.  
  
There really is no reason why the quality of government services like applying
for a tax file number or renewing a passport should be any different to
Internet banking on your phone or tablet, for example.  
  
So the DTO really is all about not only improving the availability of digital
services but also designing services that are of such high quality that users
actually seek them out. And of course data will play an important role in the
service delivery transformation, particularly spatial data and analysis which
will be used to deliver better targeted services to users.  
  
Open data agenda  
  
We have very ambitious targets when it comes to our open data agenda.  
  
We need to begin with the assumption that spatially referenced data collected
by or for the public sector is a public good[4].  
  
I am sure many of you are aware of the 2014 report by Lateral Economics which
suggests that “more vigorous open data policies could add around $16 billion
per annum to the Australian economy”[5].  
  
Governments hold an extraordinary amount of unique data, collected directly
and indirectly in the course of doing our job. It is there. We have it.  
  
But there is no point in keeping all that data stored away. It needs to be
accessed, analysed, understood, used and reused.  
  
Since the Government was elected, the number of datasets available on
data.gov.au has increased from 514 to more than 5200: a tenfold increase.  
  
Approximately 70 per cent of these open datasets are spatial[6]  
  
But the Government’s open data focus is not just about opening more and more
datasets.  
  
It is also about opening high-value datasets - those that are sought after by
the developer community.  
  
Efforts to realise the open data agenda  
  
As outlined in our election commitment, we need a deeper consultation with the
private sector and community organisations to identify public datasets that
are not currently published on data.gov.au  
  
We have made some progress with the addition of a ‘Request Data’ function on
the data.gov.au website.  
  
But there’s more we can do. I am very pleased to announce today the launch of
the Open Data 500 Australia initiative.  
  
This collaboration between the Australian Government and GovLab, a team of
researchers at New York University, will produce a landmark study of the
Australian open government data.  
  
Open Data 500 will be a comprehensive survey that will look at Australian
companies that use public datasets to generate new business, develop new
products and services or create social value.  
  
The study will provide a basis for assessing the social and economic value of
open government datasets and identify the types of data most valuable to
businesses.  
  
Similar studies have been undertaken in the US and Mexico.  
  
Open Data 500 advances the government’s policy of increasing the number of
high value public datasets in Australia in an effort to drive productivity and
innovation, as well as its commitment to greater consultation with private
sector stakeholders on open data.  
  
This study will help ensure the focus of government is on the publication of
high-value datasets, with an emphasis on quality rather than quantity.  
  
It will:  
  
● provide a basis for assessing the economic value of using open government
data; and  
  
● identify ways businesses can reduce costs associated with the licencing,
versioning, control, storage and maintenance of data.  
  
I strongly encourage Australian companies using open data as a business or
operation resource to take part in the Open Data 500 study. Information on how
to participate can be found at www.opendata500.com/au  
  
The Australian Government’s Open Data Network and the NationalMap  
  
This builds on our existing initiatives including the Open Data Network which
is an initiative that the government has used to deliver the substantial
increase of open data and functionality currently available through
data.gov.au.  
  
The Open Data Network, put simply, is a range of measures that make the
data.gov.au site easier to use, both for agencies and end-users.  
  
It provides centralised search and display layers that enable agencies to
focus on data release and quality, rather than focussing on building new
presentation platforms.  
  
The inclusion of open government data from all levels of Australian government
provides for the first time a demonstration of how seamless open data
exploitation can be achieved.  
  
The platform is now entirely open-source, meaning it is easy for anyone in the
private sector to take that information and exploit it.  
  
Geocoded address data  
  
At last years’ Locate Conference I talked about our efforts to make quality
geocoded address data openly available for use under open data terms.  
  
Access to national geocoded address data is still limited and in my view this
is curtailing Australia’s private and public sectors in their business
processes and decision-making  
  
My department is continuing to work collaboratively with our industry and
state and territory colleagues in an effort to bring this complex public
policy initiative to a resolution. And I hope to have good news on this front
soon.  
  
Open GPS infrastructure  
  
Not only are we reliant on GPS more and more in our daily lives from banking
to mobile applications, but there is a growing economic dependence on precise
positioning systems to underpin efficient transportation, geospatial data
management, and industrial automation.  
  
Open access to GPS has been estimated to contribute at least US$90 billion in
value to the US economy each year.  
  
Australia has access to many more international space programs, including
satellite navigation system projects, due to our unique position on the earth.  
  
The Australian Government is working, through the Department of Industry, to
leverage these open big data opportunities by ensuring the country’s national
coordinate framework and national positioning infrastructure is fit-for-
purpose and globally compatible for all positioning applications.  
  
And Australia continues to lead the contemporary research in global and
regional navigation satellite systems with the work being undertaken in
Program 1 (Positioning) of the Cooperative Research Centre for Spatial
Information.  
  
This work demonstrates how to integrate signals from GPS, Beidou (China),
GLONASS (Russia), Galileo (Europe) and QZSS (Japan) and providing centimetre
accurate positioning in doing so.  
  
Last month, this Program also demonstrated the role that QZSS can play in
communicating directly with a driverless tractor at Jerilderie in New South
Wales to conduct tillage and spraying operations while controlling the course
of the tractor to within five centimetres of true.  
  
Currently no other positioning satellite constellation has a communication AND
positioning capability like this Japanese satellite.  
  
The Japanese funded this research under a program established by my colleague
the Hon Ian Macfarlane, Minister for Industry and Science, and Mr Yoshitaka
Shindo, the then Minister for Internal Affairs and Communications of Japan.  
  
A promising development with this research is the possibility that Australia
will need less communications infrastructure to support precise positioning
applications in regional Australia potentially realising savings for
government and users alike.  
  
Australian studies have estimated that if we can harness all the signals from
these various positioning satellites we could add up to $32 billion over 20
years to the Australian economy, a contribution of up to $7 billion to GDP.  
  
Collaboration with states and territories, industry and academia  
  
In the spatial context, success in delivering on the open data agenda depends
on collaboration between governments, industry and academia.  
  
I would like to acknowledge the efforts of the spatial sector in leading the
open data charge.  
  
These efforts are all the more impressive in light of the sheer complexity of
a sector in which both governments and industry can be both suppliers and
customers.  
  
All jurisdictions, including the Commonwealth, collaborate through ANZLIC to
provide crucial spatially referenced data, and the Foundation Spatial Data
Framework continues to mature both in concept and delivery.  
  
Industry plays a crucial role in developing innovative ways to meet the needs
of the mobile digital market, and delivering products to benefit the
Australian economy.  
  
The role of academia is equally important, using the available data to conduct
meaningful and insightful research, and help make Australia an internationally
competitive research hub.  
  
Our policy position on the open data agenda is to make more location data open
by default, unless access is restricted to protect privacy, public safety,
security and commercial confidentiality.  
  
We want location data openly available at no charge to the end user, except
where cost recovery is warranted for specialised services.  
  
And we want location data published in formats that promote its use and reuse,
and under open licensing arrangements.  
  
Several high value datasets either have been or will be opened shortly
including the LANDSAT Archive; Broadband coverage and speed; the Australian
Business Register; the Mobile Black Spots Dataset; the Budget and the complete
Administrative Boundaries of Australia.  
  
The spatial sector has made great strides towards realising this open data
agenda.  
  
I call on the sector to continue to provide leadership, because more remains
to be done to ensure the positive impact of spatially-referenced data is
realised.  
  
Closing remarks  
  
In data, and particularly spatially-referenced data, we have a valuable
resource at our fingertips - a resource that’s akin to the coming of the first
ancient maps in the new insights and direction it can offer in a globalised
world.  
  
It is there for the exploiting, to be mined and harnessed, although it’s
probably fair to say we don’t yet comprehend the full extent of the benefits
it can deliver.  
  
That’s what this event is about; exploring the opportunities in this rapidly
expanding industry.  
  
I wish you all a useful and informative few days.  
  
Thank you.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (09:18): I move: That this
bill be now read a second time.  
  
Introduction  
  
The Communications Legislation Amendment (SBS Advertising Flexibility and
Other Measures) Bill 2015 provides the Special Broadcasting Service with
increased flexibility in the scheduling of advertising and clarifies SBS's
ability to earn revenue through having product placement during programming.  
  
The bill also makes minor technical amendments to the legislation governing
SBS and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation, and repeals various redundant
acts and provisions from the communications portfolio legislation.  
  
SBS advertising  
  
SBS is Australia's multicultural broadcaster, founded, as we were discussing
on Monday, by Malcolm Fraser. It operates under a mixed funding model. While
the majority of SBS's operating budget is funded by the Australian government,
the remainder is drawn from SBS's commercial activities including advertising
and sponsorship.  
  
In 2014 my Department of Communications conducted an efficiency study to
identify savings that could be made in the back-of-house operations of the ABC
and SBS—in other words, savings that could be made without reducing the
resources available for programming.  
  
This study identified an opportunity for SBS to earn additional advertising
revenue without increasing the maximum amount of advertising it was permitted
to show over a 24-hour period.  
  
SBS has a strict limit of five minutes of advertising per hour, which equates
to a maximum of 120 minutes of advertising shown per day. However SBS earns
the majority of its advertising revenue during peak viewing times—between 6 pm
and 10 o'clock at night—or when it broadcasts special events such as the FIFA
World Cup.  
  
This bill will amend the Special Broadcasting Service Act 1991 to allow for a
more flexible approach enabling SBS to show up to 10 minutes of advertising
per hour but within a daily overall limit of 120 minutes.  
  
This will allow SBS to schedule up to 10 minutes of advertising during higher
rating programs to increase its overall advertising revenue, while scheduling
less advertising during other hours so that the 120-minute daily cap is not
exceeded.  
  
The 120-minute daily cap on advertising is still well below the 350 minutes
per day the commercial broadcasters can devote to advertising.  
  
It is important to note that SBS has many programs, particularly sporting
programs, which have natural breaks that are suitable for advertising well in
excess of the five-minute limitation at present.  
  
It is also important to note that the SBS does not currently fill 100 per cent
of the time it has available for advertising across all channels and markets.  
  
This is particularly the case in regional markets where SBS is regularly
unable to fill five minutes of advertising per hour per channel, even during
peak evening viewing times when its higher rating programs are generally
shown. In markets with insufficient demand, the additional flexibility
afforded by the proposed measures is unlikely to result in significant change
to the amount of advertising SBS is able to attract. So the benefit of this
will really be found in the metropolitan markets.  
  
Product placement  
  
The ABC and SBS efficiency study also identified an opportunity for SBS to
earn additional revenue through the use of product placement within particular
types of programming, such as food programs and sporting programs.  
  
Product placement is widely used by broadcasters to earn additional revenue
and subsidise the cost of content production.  
  
SBS currently broadcasts acquired programming which already contains product
placement from agreements made to the benefit of third parties, prior to SBS's
consideration of the program.  
  
However, SBS does not use product placement in its own commissioned programs
due to a lack of clarity in the SBS Act regarding its use. A significant
portion of SBS's prime-time schedule, of course, does not lend itself to
integrated branding such as Insight and other documentaries. However
commissioned food and sport programming, for example, can provide
opportunities for branded content.  
  
The bill amends the SBS Act to specifically allow SBS to earn revenue through
having product placement in its programming. It also requires the SBS board to
develop and publicise guidelines regarding the use of product placement and
report on its use and earnings in the annual report. The same requirement
exists in the SBS Act for the use of advertising and sponsorship
announcements.  
  
Financial impact of advertising changes  
  
In the short term, additional advertising revenue will be directed towards
meeting the government's efficiency savings applied to SBS from 2015-16. If
the SBS advertising measures in the bill are not passed before the end of this
financial year, the SBS will need to find other ways to achieve the necessary
savings, which it has indicated may involve reductions in programming and/or
services.  
  
In the longer term, the government's intention from these changes is that SBS
becomes a stronger and more sustainable broadcaster. Advertising flexibility
strengthens SBS by making it less dependent on government and helps secure its
future and its independence.  
  
It is anticipated that the SBS advertising measures will result in an increase
in SBS's advertising revenue of $28.5 million over four years from 2015-16. In
later years, if they exceed that run rate, the additional revenues can be
directed towards delivering more distinctive and innovative content and
services in line with its charter responsibilities.  
  
Additional revenue earned by SBS is highly unlikely to have a material impact
on the advertising revenue of the commercial television broadcasting industry,
which totalled $3.9 billion in 2013-14. SBS is, in advertising terms, a minnow
in that market.  
  
Since the introduction of in-programming advertising on SBS in 2006-07, SBS's
advertising revenue has increased, peaking at $72.3 million in 2009-10 and
$73.4 million in 2013-14, due to advertising associated with the 2010 and 2014
world cups. Advertising revenue, for example, in the previous year 2012-13 was
$58 million.  
  
When you compare that to the $3.9 billion earned by commercial television
advertising overall, honourable members can see that an increase in SBS
advertising is really of very small significance to the commercial television
sector. Needless to say, they are not welcoming this change  
  
I have to say that the forecasts of additional advertising revenue that this
change will deliver for SBS, while still very small in the context of the
overall pool of commercial television advertising revenue is, in any event,
unrealistic in our view and in SBS's view.  
  
It is important to note that those two highest revenue results for SBS, that
is to say in 2009-10 and 2013-14, constituted less than two per cent of the
commercial television industry's revenue for the respective financial years.  
  
The steady growth of SBS advertising revenue over this period has not
historically led to a reduction in overall commercial advertising revenues for
free-to-air television.  
  
That is likely because of the continued growth of the entire television
advertising spend over the period, which has significantly outstripped the
growth in SBS's own advertising revenues.  
  
I acknowledge the opposition to this bill from the commercial television
networks; they are under pressure from new entrants to the advertising market
that are available over the top or on the internet. This is particularly the
case with reaching younger people. The median age of prime-time television
viewers is considerably older than the median age of the Australian
population.  
  
The last figures that I have seen—and they are the best that we have
available—showed the median age, for example, for prime-time viewers of the
ABC was 61. So, half the audience of prime-time ABC viewers is over 61. The
median age for viewers of, for example, the Seven and Nine networks is in the
high to late 40s. The median age of the Australian population, I believe, is
around 36 or 37.  
  
The challenge for the free-to-air television industry, whether it is
commercial or public broadcasters, is that younger demographics are not
watching free-to-air linear television as much and they are getting access to
their video content over the top, over the internet on catch-up platforms. Of
course, with the entrance of new global players like Netflix that trend will
continue.  
  
So the challenges, the pressures, on the commercial television industry—for
which we have great respect and regard and which I am very familiar with, as
honourable members know, from my previous life—are not coming from SBS. They
should not be worried about SBS. Their issues are essentially online and
changes to television viewing habits and the way in which all of us consume
content.  
  
Miscellaneous legislative changes to the ABC and SBS acts  
  
The bill also makes minor technical amendments to the Australian Broadcasting
Corporation Act 1983 and the principal SBS Act to provide consistency with
other broadcasting legislation and to remove redundant provisions.  
  
The amendments involve the insertion of some broadcasting definitions and
terms in the SBS Act to make it consistent with the Broadcasting Services Act
1992 and the ABC Act, and to reflect SBS activities that are provided in the
current converging digital environment. It also removes redundant definitions
in the ABC and SBS acts about election periods.  
  
Repealing spent provisions from communications portfolio legislation  
  
In addition, the bill repeals a range of provisions from communications
portfolio legislation which are spent or otherwise unnecessary. Repealing
unnecessary legislation within the communications portfolio will ensure
regulation only remains in force for as long as it is needed and that
remaining legislation is easily accessible.  
  
Conclusion  
  
The government is introducing the bill at this time to allow for any inquiry
into the proposed legislation, which would involve a call for submissions and
potentially a public hearing, to be completed prior to the winter sittings. As
stated previously, it is important that the SBS advertising measures are
passed before the end of this financial year to allow SBS to generate
additional revenue to meet the required savings from 2015-16, without
affecting programming and services.  
  
The government is committed to repairing the federal budget and ensuring the
public broadcasters are as efficient as possible. The government has recently
reformed the procurement of and funding arrangements for transmission services
for the ABC and SBS to encourage the broadcasters to adopt more efficient
practices and realise savings that can be directed towards producing new
content and services.  
  
Similarly, the SBS advertising measures in this bill will allow SBS to earn
additional advertising revenue which could in the future be used to fund new
programming.  
  
Government funding currently comprises around 75 per cent of SBS's operational
budget. Measures in this bill will also lessen SBS's dependence on government
funding in the future.  
  
I commend the bill to the House.  
  
Debate adjourned.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (10:38): I thank all
honourable members for their contributions to this debate. Access to metadata
plays a central role in almost every counter-terrorism, counterespionage,
cyber security and organised crime investigation. It is used in almost all
serious criminal investigations, including investigations into murder, serious
sexual assaults, drug trafficking and kidnapping.  
  
The use of this kind of metadata, therefore, is not new. I would like to
reconfirm, for the benefit of honourable members and anyone watching this at
home or at work, what we are talking about when we talk about metadata. We are
talking about the traditional information about telephone calls that we used
to get on our telephone bills. We are all familiar with it. It shows the
caller, the A-party; the B-party, the called number; the time of the call; the
length of the call; and, in a mobile network operator's situation, the
location of the call—the nearest base station to which it was connected.  
  
  
  
That information has been available—it has been kept by telcos often for very
long periods, well in excess of two years—and it has been accessed from time
immemorial. In terms of the IP world, the internet world, we are talking about
what we can call the customer IP address. When a device is connected to the
internet its internet service provider will allocate it an IP address, which
is a unique number.  
  
That IP address is connected, obviously, to the account holder. That IP
address may become apparent in some other context where it is important for
law enforcement to know which account holder that IP address was allocated to.
Again, those records have been kept, in some cases, for a very long time. They
have been accessed for a long time by law enforcement, but, as I will describe
a little later in these remarks, there is now the risk that they will not be
kept at all or will be kept for very brief periods—and there are consequences
for that.  
  
What we are talking about here is not storing what people are doing
online—what they are saying and what websites that are visiting. This is about
retaining classes of data for two years that are being retained now, and where
there is a concern that, because business practices have changed, they will
not need to be retained in the future. This is very important.  
  
This is not a question of the government requiring telcos to retain a record
of what websites you visit or the content of your emails—let alone your
telephone calls—and so forth. The deficiency and inconsistency of current data
records was highlighted in June last year when the AFP received information
from Interpol about a suspect who had made a statement online that they
intended to sexually assault a baby. Interpol provided IP address details
belonging to an Australian carrier. As the Australian carrier only retained
data—that is to say, customer IP address data—for a maximum of seven days, no
results were available and the suspect was unable to be identified. That
example is not isolated. The police advise us they have dozens of examples.  
  
The bill, as I said a moment ago, will establish a common industry standard
for data retention practices that will assist agencies to protect the
Australian public. Importantly, it will prevent the further degradation of the
investigative capacities of Australia's law enforcement and national security
agencies. I note that the measures in the bill have been formulated, and will
be further refined, with the benefit of two bipartisan inquiries undertaken by
the Parliamentary Joint Committee on Intelligence and Security.  
  
The committee's first inquiry was completed in 2013 under the chairmanship of
the member for Holt, the Hon. Anthony Byrne MP. It recommended a number of
reforms to Australia's national security legislation, including how a data
retention scheme should be shaped, should the government of the day decide to
introduce such a scheme. This bill represents the government's response to
chapter 5 of that report.  
  
Following my introduction of the bill on 30 October, the Attorney-General
referred it to the committee, now under the chairmanship of the member for
Wannon, Mr Dan Tehan. The committee recommended the passage of the bill in its
advisory report. The committee's support was subject to 38 recommendations.
Twenty-six of these recommendations relate to amendments to the bill or the
explanatory memorandum. A further 11 recommendations relate to additional
administrative measures, including additional resourcing for the committee,
the Commonwealth Ombudsman and reviews. The committee also recommended the
proposed two-year retention period be retained. We accepted the
recommendations of the committee and will move amendments, where required, to
implement them.  
  
The government will be tabling a replacement explanatory memorandum
elaborating on the justification for various measures in the bill in line with
the committee's recommendations. I note that many honourable members have
expressed their support for the implementation of the committee's
recommendations, and we look forward to working constructively with members of
this committee on the relevant amendments to the bill when we reach the
committee stage.  
  
Now, in addition, the government has announced that it will move amendments to
require a warrant to access data for the purpose of identifying a journalist's
confidential source. It will also establish a public interest advocate, who
will have a role in making submissions in respect of those warrants. This is a
very important protection. I see that the honourable member for Isaacs, the
shadow Attorney-General, is now in the chamber. I want to note the cooperation
that he and his colleague the member for Blaxland, the shadow communications
minister, has given me in the course of this week in settling the terms of
these amendments and reaching agreement on them. I will deal with some aspects
of the debate.  
  
The member for Melbourne, who has an amendment, has suggested that this bill
is being rushed. My response to the honourable member is simply that the
committee has conducted not one but two inquiries on this. Data retention has
been the subject of a public inquiry by the Senate Legal and Constitutional
Affairs References Committee since December 2013. This is not a new issue by
any means.  
  
As far as the opposition's contribution is concerned I want to thank those
opposite for their expression of support for both the bill and the
government's proposed amendments, which will be moved shortly. There have been
many important issues raised in the debate but in the time available—and given
the central focus of discussion in recent days on this—I want to focus on the
question of the treatment of journalists.  
  
This raises very important and legitimate questions around the power of law
enforcement agencies to investigate journalists' sources. All of us understand
that the work that journalists do is just as important in our democracy as the
work that we do as legislators—or, indeed, the work that the Public Service
does in undertaking and executing the policies of government. I think it was
Jefferson who said that if he was given a choice of a government without
newspapers or newspapers without government he would choose the latter.
Fortunately, we do not have to make that choice, but our democracy depends
absolutely, fundamentally on a free press and journalists being able to do
their work.  
  
But journalists are subject to the law, like everybody else. There was a
concern that the bill, by introducing an ability, so it was argued, for law
enforcement and security agencies to obtain journalists' metadata to
investigate sources suspected of illegally disclosing information—for example,
checking which telephone numbers had called a journalist's number or vice
versa—this ability might have a chilling effect on sources cooperating with
journalists, who would be fearful of investigation or prosecution.  
  
Those concerns are misguided, in our submission. The bill does not grant law
enforcement or security agencies any new powers in the way they access
metadata of journalists or anyone else. In fact, agencies have been able to
access this type of data for more than 20 years. What it does, as I said
earlier, is simply ensure that the types of data that are currently being
retained will be retained for a consistent period. In a number of cases,
particularly with telephony metadata, some of the larger carriers now retain
metadata for very long periods—for seven years in one case.  
  
There is nothing in the bill, therefore, that should concern journalists about
their right to do their jobs—their duty to do their jobs—and to deal
confidentially with their sources. Obviously, journalists should take care to
protect their sources. Like the Prime Minister, I am a former journalist. Both
of us have had a rake's progress. We started off as honest journalists, and
here we are as politicians—'What's next?' you may think; 'It can only get
worse!'—so we understand the importance of this work.  
  
The bill provides several new and strengthened safeguard and oversight
measures—all of which are directly relevant to journalists and their sources.
It reduces the number of agencies which automatically qualify for access to
metadata from about 80 down to 20. It introduces, for the first time,
comprehensive oversight by the Commonwealth Ombudsman for any Commonwealth,
state or territory law enforcement agency accessing metadata.  
  
The bill sets up a new oversight mechanism, where any request by an agency to
access data to identify a journalist's source must be provided to the
Inspector-General of Intelligences and Security in the case of ASIO, and the
Ombudsman in the case of the AFP. Further, the Attorney-General will also
notify a parliamentary committee of each authorisation to identify a
journalist's source. In addition, and very significantly, we are proposing
additional amendments to require agencies to obtain independent pre-approval
in the form of an new journalist information warrant to access a professional
journalist's metadata, or that of their employer, for the purpose of
identifying a confidential source.  
  
These warrants will be issued by judges and members of the AAT—the
Administrative Appeals Tribunal—in the case of law enforcement agencies, or by
the Attorney-General in the case of ASIO. The warrant would relate to a single
journalist named on the face of the warrant. It would require the issuing
authority to consider, among other things, the public interest in protecting
the confidentiality of the particular source in question.  
  
To assist in this last point the amendments will also see the establishment of
a public interest advocate—or persons who will be public interest
advocates—who will be able to make submissions in response to the application
for a warrant on the matters of public interest that the warrant-issuing
authority should consider. These are the amendments that have been negotiated
with the opposition—and, again, I thank them for their cooperation in that.  
  
I also thank the media companies and journalist organisations for their
contributions to this debate. This has been a very good legislative process,
with the combination of public discussion, engagement between government and
opposition and, above all, the work of the committee. I want to thank the
committee for its work—under the chair, the member for Wannon, and the deputy
chair, the member for Holt—and for its thorough, constructive and bipartisan
review of the measures in the bill.  
  
The work of the committee and the constructive, thoughtful contributions of
honourable members to this debate is a reflection on the very high quality of
parliamentary scrutiny that is applied to Australia's national security
legislation. We should always be approaching these matters of national
security in a thoroughly bipartisan way and, where there are differences of
opinion and differences of approach, we should be able to resolve them in the
very constructive way we have here. Naturally I want to thank my colleague the
Attorney-General and his team both in his office and in his department for all
of their hard work on this bill.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (11:27): Today we are
assembled, again, to say farewell to one of our nation's great leaders. We
have said farewell to Gough Whitlam this year, and now we say farewell to
Malcolm Fraser. Malcolm Fraser, as many speakers have noted, has been defined
by his great conflict with Gough Whitlam, not in his own mind and not in our
minds.  
  
That was an extraordinary conflagration in our political life. It is one that
Australians will talk about, read about and schoolchildren will study forever,
for centuries and as long as our nation exists. But Malcolm Fraser was a
remarkable man; a remarkable progressive liberal.  
  
  
  
The term 'progressive' has been used a few times in this debate already today.
It has been suggested that Malcolm Fraser in his later years became beloved of
progressives. But Malcolm Fraser was always progressive.  
  
Right back in the early 1960s, he noted on one occasion how remarkable it was
that people who opposed the tyranny of the Soviet Union were regarded as
extreme reactionary conservatives, but those who favoured a more lenient
approach and those who favoured some form of accommodation with the Soviet
Union were regarded as progressives.  
  
Yet, he asked, were those who fought for freedom, democracy and individual
liberty not the true progressives? I think we would agree now, with the 20/20
vision of hindsight, that they were. Before I go on, let me say a little about
the centrality of Malcolm Fraser's life.  
  
At the centre of his life, at the very heart of his life, was a great love
story. He and Tamie were married in 1956. He was 26 years of age and she was
20. So, barely out of her teens, she was suddenly the wife of a member of
parliament, and we all know what a tough road it is for the wives and families
of parliamentarians.  
  
Our own Prime Minister has said many times, and very insightfully, that all of
us here are volunteers; our families are the conscripts. And Tamie managed her
family of four children—Mark, Angela, Hugh and Phoebe—she managed all of that,
without any of the conveniences of modern life that we take for granted:
email, cheap telephony, sealed roads.  
  
She managed to move that family around from Canberra to Wannon to
Melbourne—all around the country—keeping it all together in that time. The
Deputy Prime Minister, the Leader of the National Party, spoke of the great
friendship between Doug Anthony and Malcolm Fraser, and it was a very deep
friendship.  
  
They were citizens, arm in arm, Madam Speaker, as you would recall—you were on
the other side, as I recall—on the side of the 'yes' vote in the republic
campaign. You could see the affection between them. But that relationship was
struck between their wives, when, in 1957, Doug Anthony was elected to
parliament—surprisingly; it was as much of a surprise to him as it had been to
Malcolm Fraser, when Malcolm Fraser threw his hat in the ring in a
preselection, as a young man of 24, thinking he would have no prospects.  
  
And, of course, Doug Anthony was thrust into parliament unexpectedly because
his father, who preceded him in the seat, had died. So you had two young
wives, Margot and Tamie, here in Canberra, a very cold place. As Tamie once
said, it seemed to be full of old, grey, bald men.  
  
An opposition member interjecting—  
  
Mr TURNBULL: 'Nothing's changed,' I heard somebody say! That is a very harsh
comment. Perhaps there are not quite as many men as there used to be, but
there are nonetheless still—I think we would all agree—too many, relative to
the women. But that pair formed a bond. They were both young women, having
their first babies together, both in this pretty tough environment.  
  
Above all—and I know that Malcolm's family will recognise this—out of all of
this, in the discussion of his great achievements, to which I will turn in a
moment, is this House's, this parliament's, this nation's love to them, to the
family, recognising their grief, their loss and, above all, honouring that
great love story which was the foundation of Malcolm and Tamie's joint
expedition into the public life of Australia and all the achievements that
flowed from that.  
  
I should say a little bit about Malcolm Fraser's demeanour. He was elected to
parliament as the youngest member of parliament at the time, at 24, but he was
also the tallest. He had always—partly, I think, because of his height—  
  
Government members interjecting—  
  
Mr TURNBULL: The member for Longman should not feel that as a backhanded
compliment! Unlike the member for Longman, the then member for Wannon, the
young member for Wannon, had a chilly demeanour. He was shy. I think a lot of
people took that for a real personal coldness, which was not the case.  
  
Malcolm Fraser was a shy man, and in some cases that was really
misinterpreted. And that, coupled with his height and a rather austere
appearance—the farmer from the Western District—meant it was easy to paint a
caricature, particularly contrary to the flamboyance of Gough Whitlam or
indeed the extraordinary gregarious conviviality of Bob Hawke, who succeeded
him.  
  
But he was always a very droll man. He had a very good sense of humour. I want
to recall a letter that Malcolm Fraser wrote to the Melbourne Sun on 3 June
1954, after he had only just failed to win the seat of Wannon from the Labor
Party. It was a Labor seat and he nearly won it. He lost by a few hundred
votes and then of course won it at the next election and then built up his
majority till it became a very safe seat.  
  
But he wrote this letter following the election:  
  
"Sir In the course of the recent federal election campaign statements been
made in the Melbourne press with respect to my football activities past and
future. Three statements have been quoted as having been made by me. All are
untrue. I did not say I played Australian Rules football for Melbourne Grammar
or rugger for Oxford University. No local team in the Western District has
ever approached me to play football. The only position that I would be
qualified to fill on a football field would be that of goal post."  
  
For a shy 24-year-old—honourable members can understand—he had a very good
sense of humour.  
  
Often governments and politicians and leaders get credit for doing things that
would have happened anyway because the tenor of the times is such that certain
reform was inevitably going to happen and the respective government or Prime
Minister—or minister, for that matter—is johnny-on-the-spot who happens to be
there to make the decision that had to be made.  
  
But the real mark of political achievement is when leaders actually change
history, when they do things that are different, and Fraser had a very deep
sense of this. After all, as the Treasurer—he is not here anymore; he has
vanished; that is quite a feat! But, as the Treasurer was saying earlier, in
Malcolm Fraser's Deakin lecture, where he used the line 'Life wasn't meant to
be easy,' he was actually summarising Arnold Toynbee's 12 volumes—which was
quite an achievement—which he had studied at Oxford. Toynbee's thesis really
was that civilisations basically are not destroyed by external forces; they
commit suicide; they give up. He made the point that we have to keep on
fighting; we have to recognise that we have big challenges and keep on going
at them. That is what he meant. It was not at all the smug remark that it was
later represented to be.  
  
When you look at what he did in respect of shaping the nature of Australia
today, it is really quite remarkable. When you sum up Australia to a foreign
friend, one of the first things you would say is, 'This is the most successful
multicultural society in the world.' There is no country in the world that has
a higher percentage of immigrants—that is to say, people who were born outside
of Australia. Not one.  
  
No comparable country has as high a percentage. America, supposedly the
melting pot, has half the percentage. And ours is so diverse. How have we been
able to do that so successfully? Well, this has been the work of generations
and of hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of Australians. Ultimately, it
comes from the good sense and big-heartedness of Australians. It has seen
enormous leadership from those in this chamber. Of course, the member for
Berowra, who I know will speak later, is one of the great architects of this.  
  
But Malcolm Fraser was so far ahead of his time. He was the first federal
politician, as far as we know—certainly the first minister—ever to use the
term 'multiculturalism' and talk about multiculturalism. He did so in a speech
to the State Zionist Council of New South Wales in 1969.  
  
That is a full four years before Al Grassby, described as the father of
multiculturalism, became a minister. You can see here where impressions can be
so misleading. Malcolm Fraser—tall, rather austere, suited, generally with a
waistcoat, with stiff English shoes, looking very much the creation of the
establishment—was undoubtedly a member, a scion, if you like, of the
Protestant ascendency in the Victorian establishment.  
  
It is easy to put him into that conservative box. Al Grassby, of course, had
his moustache, his purple suits and so forth—clearly a progressive and a
radical. But there was Malcolm Fraser, four years before, in office, making
those very points. His views on this matter, I think, were in large part
formed by sectarianism. As I said, he grew up in the days when sectarianism
was much stronger. He went into politics at the time of the Labor split; he
was very close to BA Santamaria. That is quite a tradition with Prime
Ministers on our side, so it seems—that is a compliment.  
  
Honourable members interjecting—  
  
Mr TURNBULL: They will laugh at anything; they are easily amused, Prime
Minister. Fraser deplored the way Billy Hughes, in the First World War, had
set out to divide the nation on sectarian grounds. This really marked his
thinking and, I believe, made a huge impact on his approach to
multiculturalism and racism in the years ahead. He was, as we know, a great
supporter of Aboriginal land rights, when in office as Prime Minister; views
that were strongly reinforced when he toured the Northern Territory as
education minister with Billy Wentworth, who was then the minister for
Indigenous affairs or whatever the department was called at that time.  
  
His treatment and welcoming of Vietnamese refugees was—and I say this without
a tinge of partisanship—in contrast to that of the previous Labor government.
In that respect, Fraser was very critical of the Whitlam government for not
being generous enough to refugees from Vietnam. In government this so-called
conservative, this stiff member of the establishment, had a much more generous
approach than any of his predecessors. In that sense, as you can see with
multiculturalism, with immigration and with antiracism, he was very, very much
ahead of his time—ahead of his time whether it was on the Liberal side or the
Labor side.  
  
The establishment of the Special Broadcasting Service, which has been
mentioned, was an extraordinary innovation—unique anywhere in the world, as
far as I am aware. That was very much a creation of Malcolm Fraser, inspired,
no doubt, by his adviser Petro Georgiou. When Petro retired from this House,
he said very eloquently of Malcolm Fraser:  
  
"To those who have sought to denigrate Malcolm Fraser, I just want to say one
thing: Malcolm’s fusion of political toughness with compassion and social
conscience is simply beyond their comprehension. "  
  
He has been criticised for not doing enough in terms of microeconomic reform.
That criticism is both inaccurate, up to a point, but also rather unfair. As
John Howard and Peter Reith have both said in recent times, Malcolm Fraser,
while he went into parliament as a young man, was very much there with the
views and attitudes of the 1950s and 1960s.  
  
Inevitably, he was imbued with the attitudes of men and women a generation
older than himself, because they were his peers. So you cannot look at the
economic debate of 2015 and go back to 1975, all those years—40 years—and say,
'They got it wrong; they weren't progressive enough; they didn't understand
it.' It was, in every respect, a very, very different world.  
  
During the republic campaign, as the Prime Minister observed, Malcolm Fraser
was deaf to the Prime Minister's eloquence and, thankfully, supported the
'yes' vote. He did so with someone who became his old friend—Gough Whitlam. I
will say a little bit about that in conclusion, but just let me say this about
the republic debate.  
  
Fraser made a remarkably energetic and thoughtful contribution to that debate.
He was hyperactive: he gave speeches, he wrote articles and he tackled one of
the very key constitutional points, which was whether, under the republican
model being proposed—the scheme, as honourable members will recall, was that
the Prime Minister could remove the president but not appoint the successor to
the president.  
  
This was one of the safeguards built into it. The argument was put by the
monarchist side that the Queen had no obligation to act on the advice of the
Prime Minister to appoint or remove a Governor-General. Fraser of course,
having been a Prime Minister and having had real, firsthand experience of
constitutional crises, was able to lend the authority of his office invoking
actually Robert Menzies, who had commented on this same point, to lend some
real authority and dignity to that debate.  
  
He made a very big contribution to the 'yes' campaign. Whenever we polled the
ratings, the respect and approval of various political figures engaged in the
campaign, he was at the very top. He was such a widely respected person. So
much else has been said about Malcolm Fraser's illustrious life.  
  
Can I just conclude on one lesson that I think he gives to all of us. People
in our line of work tend to get consumed with bitterness and resentment. Often
we have good cause to be or, at least, we think we do. Fraser, who had plenty
of detractors and plenty of enemies, was, nonetheless, not a hater. It was a
remarkable feature of his evolution.  
  
Remember that he ceased to be Prime Minister at age 52 or 53, so he was a
young Prime Minister and a young ex-Prime-Minister. But, despite all of that
tumult and all of the venom that had been expended at him, he did not look
backwards; he was focused on the issues of today and tomorrow.  
  
His last tweet, we all recall, was tweeting an article about Chinese foreign
policy. He was not interested in getting into his anecdotage, sitting back in
the armchair and talking about what might have been or who was right or wrong
in the sacking of Gorton or the sacking of Whitlam. He was focused on the
future.  
  
But he did so in a thoroughly positive way and, in that respect, gave all of
us an example that we should at every stage, like Fraser and like Whitlam did,
drive the negativity and hatred and bitterness out of ourselves, fill it with
love because that makes us stronger and makes our nation stronger.  
  
Farewell Malcolm Fraser. The nation has lost one of its greats. We salute you.
We pray for your family. They are in our prayers and we know that your role in
Australian history will be forever recognised as one of the greatest, one of
the architects of the extraordinary nation all of us are so honoured to
represent in this chamber.MALCOLM TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (11:46): I move:  
  
That this bill be now read a second time.  
  
The Copyright Amendment (Online Infringement) Bill 2015 amends the Copyright
Act 1968 to provide an effective new tool that rights holders use can then use
to respond to commercial scale widespread copyright infringement on websites
operated outside Australia.  
  
Significance of the creative industries and copyright challenges  
  
Copyright protection provides an essential mechanism for ensuring the
viability and success of creative industries by providing an incentive for and
a reward to creators. A part of copyright law is to strike the right balance
between, on the one hand, creators and owners of copyrighted works and, on the
other hand, users and disseminators of copyrighted works. However, this is
never simple. Creators themselves have an interest in both protecting their
rights as well as access and dissemination of content.  
  
Australia possesses a proud and valuable creative sector. Our creative
industries make a significant contribution to our national economy. According
to a 2012 report, Australia's creative industries employ 900,000 people and
generate economic value of more than $90 billion, including $7 billion in
exports.  
  
The internet has created new opportunities for creating, innovating, accessing
and distributing intellectual property. The internet has also created major
challenges for copyright protection. Material can be accessed, copied and
shared with ease. In many instances this is a very good thing and has helped
promote education and freedom of speech.  
  
On any view, in net terms the internet has been the most wonderful beneficial
invention of infrastructure of mankind. But a collateral effect of
technological changes of this kind has been to exacerbate an indifference to
the rights of copyright owners among some internet users an expectation
amongst some that content should in every respect be free. In many cases, free
access to content is lawful and proper, and, as such, is provided for
expressly under exceptions to infringement in the Copyright Act.  
  
The challenge though is to strike the right balance. In that regard, it has
become apparent that there is a gap in Australia's legislative framework in so
far as existing copyright law is not adequate to deter a specific type of
infringing activity, which is the facilitation of the online infringement of
copyright owners' content, largely of audio-visual material, by online
apparatus. Hence parliament recognises that a remedy is required.  
  
There are a number of foreign based online locations that disseminate large
amounts of infringing content to Australian internet users. These online
locations are currently able to operate without disruption, and profit to a
large extent from facilitating the streaming and downloading by end users of
infringing copies of audio-visual material. What they do, in unlawfully
accessing and then profiting from the intellectual and artistic endeavours of
others, is a form of theft.  
  
Rights holders face a number of practical barriers in enforcing their rights
against these operators and the most but practical barrier of all, of course,
is that the website or the online site that is facilitating this type of
infringement, engaging in this form of intellectual property theft is located
in a jurisdiction where it is not practical to take legal proceedings. Hence
the need to deal with this particular problem. It is a specific problem.  
  
It is very hard to take enforcement action against entities operating outside
Australia. In practical terms, it is very difficult. An injunction can only be
awarded by a court after lengthy and costly civil proceedings. The widespread
scale of infringement means that it is often not viable for rights holders to
enforce their rights against individual users.  
  
New injunctions power  
  
This bill will provide a powerful new mechanism to protect the legitimate
interests of rights-holders by enabling infringing material to be blocked by a
carriage service provider without the need to establish fault on the part of
that provider—the carriage service provider being the internet service
provider. Specifically, the bill will introduce a new provision that allows
rights holders to apply to the Federal Court for an order directing a carriage
service provider to disable access to infringing online locations located
outside Australia.  
  
This type of provision is working well in other parts of the world such as the
United Kingdom, Ireland and Singapore. An injunction is often ordered in those
jurisdictions without any opposition from the internet service provider
concerned.  
  
Critically, the provisions in this bill have been carefully drafted to ensure
that the new injunction power will not affect the legitimate websites and
services that legally provide access to copyright material. Importantly, the
provision will apply on a no-fault basis against the carriage service
provider. This recognises that, while carriage service providers are not
necessarily responsible for infringing online locations, they are best placed
to prevent Australian internet users from accessing them. The provision does
not apply to online locations in Australia, since rights holders can take
direct action against those online locations through existing remedies in the
Copyright Act.  
  
The bill recognises that there is a need to balance the important goal of
protecting our creative industries against other vital public and private
interests. The bill, therefore, contains a number of safeguards to ensure that
the power is not used to curb those competing interests. First, the power is
only as broad as it needs to be to achieve its objectives. The provision will
only capture online locations where it can be established that the primary
purpose of the location is to infringe or facilitate the infringement of
copyright. That is a significant threshold test which will ensure that the
provision cannot be used to target online locations that are mainly devoted to
a legitimate purpose. As an example of this, let us say that we have a
legitimate streaming service located in the United States that is streaming
content in respect of which it has all of the copyright authority to stream to
customers in the United States. Let us assume that an Australian was to use a
VPN, a virtual private network, to create the impression that they were
actually located in the United States so that when the American site saw the
IP address they would see a US IP address. This Australian could then—and this
is widely done—purchase the content in the normal way, with a credit card. The
owner of the Australian rights to the content may very well be quite unhappy
about that, but they can take a remedy against the American site. This
provision does not apply to a site like this. Where someone is using a VPN to
access Netflix in the United States to get content in respect of which Netflix
does not have an Australian licence, this bill would not deal with that
because you could not say that Netflix in the United States has, as its
primary purpose, the infringement or facilitation of the infringement of
copyright. This is a very important point to make. There are other remedies
available to Australian rights holders in respect of those conventional
sites—if I can describe them that way.  
  
Second, the court must consider a broad range of factors that reflect
competing public and private interests. The court must consider the flagrancy
of the infringement. This provision particularly contemplates online locations
that deliberately and conspicuously flout copyright laws. The court must also
consider whether blocking access to the online location is a proportionate
response in the circumstances. For example, the court may consider the
percentage of infringing content on the online location compared to the
legitimate content or the frequency with which the infringing material is
accessed by subscribers in Australia. Another consideration for the court is
the overall public interest. The internet has revolutionised our ability to
disseminate information and knowledge. The court must weigh the public
interest in access to information against the public interest in protecting
our creative industries. These competing public interests must themselves be
considered in the wider context of the private interest which it is the
principal purpose of the bill to protect—that is, the right of content
creators to the protection of their intellectual property.  
  
Another important factor is the impact of the application for an injunction on
any person affected. That includes, in particular, the carriage service
provider, the ISP. The court will need to consider whether there are
procedural safeguards to ensure that affected operators of online locations
will have an avenue to make their case. The bill requires the copyright owner
to notify the carriage service provider and the operator of an application as
soon as practical. The operator may then seek to be joined as a party to the
proceedings.  
  
Extensive consultation has been conducted on this measure. On 30 July last
year the Attorney-General and I jointly released the Online Copyright
Infringement discussion paper for public consultation. A number of submissions
directly addressed this proposal. As a result of this consultation the measure
was modified to give more flexibility to courts in determining whether to
order an injunction to capture future infringing technologies and to provide
more safeguards for carriage service providers, operators, online locations
and internet users.  
  
The new injunction power is one measure that the government is introducing to
address online copyright infringement. International experience shows that a
range of measures are needed to properly tackle the problem. The new
injunction power will complement the industry code that is being developed
between the internet service providers and copyright holders. When finalised,
the code will create an education notice scheme that will warn alleged
infringers and give them information about legitimate alternatives. An
injunction provision will be even more effective if users are properly
educated and warned about online copyright infringement.  
  
In conclusion, in combating online copyright infringement the most powerful
weapon that rights holders have is to provide access to their content in a
timely and affordable way. The government accepts that this is an important
element in any package of measures to address online copyright infringement.
The government also welcomes recent action by rights holders and expects
industry to continue to respond to this demand from consumers in the digital
market. The bill complements these objectives by ensuring there is fair
protection of the rights of content creators while balancing other competing
interests in the online environment. This will be achieved by ensuring
copyright holders have access to an effective remedy without unduly burdening
carriage service providers or unnecessarily regulating the behaviour of
consumers. I move that this bill be now read a second time, and I commend it
to the House.  
  
Debate adjourned.Malcolm Turnbull delivered the following address to the CeBIT Australia
e-government conference in Sydney on Tuesday, May 6.  
  
Good morning.  
  
Thank you Harvey for your introduction, and to everyone including the NSW
Minister for Innovation, Victor Dominello, and the acting CEO of the Digital
Transformation Office, David Hazelhurst, for being here this morning.  
  
Introduction  
  
So here's the big picture.  
  
Australians overall enjoy a relatively high standard of living. Our wages are
among the highest in the world and consequently so are our costs.  
  
But how do we maintain that high standard of living in a world being
transformed by convergence and globalisation amplified by information
technology?  
  
By convergence I mean the way in which developing economies which had hitherto
competed for low cost, low skill jobs are now competing for the most skilled,
producing the most sophisticated and advanced products. Globalisation powered
by the Internet means many businesses and jobs which used not to be trade
exposed - think of retail, media, professional services - now are. The
globalisation of supply chains means that at every stage of production there
is more contestability than ever.  
  
Convergence and globalisation offers much more competition, but it also offers
much more opportunity. As more and more of our market becomes accessible to
global competitors so does a larger and far wealthier global market become
accessible to us.  
  
At the same time in common with other developed economies, and some developing
ones, we face the challenges of:  
  
It is widely recognised, not least by the IMF, that Australia has a structural
Budget deficit so clearly we need to get spending under control.  
  
But this in itself will not secure our future prosperity. Sustained economic
growth is needed to grow wages and lift our standard of living. So how do we
realise this?  
  
The key to our future prosperity is to be faster, leaner, more productive,
more innovative and more collaborative. Above all to be more agile, to
recognise that we are living in the most exciting, dynamic, disruptive time in
human history, and that the volatility and unpredictability driven by
technology and rapid change must be embraced not ignored.  
  
We cannot proof ourselves against the future in the sense of building a wall
or a dyke of some kind to hold back the future. We embrace the future, we make
volatility our friend, not our enemy. We change our business culture so that
it is more receptive to innovation, more receptive to different ways of doing
things; no longer saying ‘not invented here’, no longer being so deferential,
and above all, never saying ‘we’ve always done it this way’.  
  
Innovation is critical to our economic prosperity; the latest Australian
Innovation System report showed that the 42 per cent of domestic businesses
that innovate account for around 70 per cent of the economy’s employment,
capital expenditure and business income, and more than 80 per cent of total
Internet income.  
  
But our performance on innovation is slipping behind other developed nations.
We rank second last of 17 OECD countries on new-to-the-world innovation. The
proportion of researchers working for Australian businesses is lower than in
comparable countries so they need to collaborate more with universities, where
the bulk of researchers are employed.  
  
Digital disruption and the role of government  
  
While the Internet has been disrupting legacy business models for some time,
the most significant change is the way mass connectivity has combined with
mobility and modern processing power to disrupt non-traded sectors.  
  
Take Airbnb. In less than three years it has added more than 10,000 rooms to
Sydney’s holiday rental market without a single brick being laid or planning
permit being approved. In seven years Airbnb has added more than one million
rooms globally, compared to the century old Hilton chain’s 700,000 hotel
rooms.  
  
With more than 1.75bn smartphones in use globally, most people expect to be
able to access services and information from almost any location, at any time
of the day.  
  
If you can order a pizza, taxi or pair of shoes through an app and monitor the
status of these items through to delivery, or complete all of your banking
through a smartphone, it’s not unreasonable to expect government to make its
services as widely available.  
  
Government needs to embrace change and adapt in-line with the expectations of
its customers.  
  
While government isn’t exposed to competition in the traditional sense - it
has a monopoly on many of the services it delivers - if it seeks to remain
relevant to people’s everyday lives then it must be flexible and nimble,
capable of embracing new technologies to disrupt the way it delivers public
services. And of course governments, or at least their political masters, face
the ultimate disruption every three to four years at the ballot box so it’s in
our interests to adapt and embrace change.  
  
Remember the government sector is at least a third of the economy, so by
delivering digital services that are easier to access and simpler to use,
people will not only save time when dealing with government, the whole economy
will be more efficient.  
  
Digital Transformation Office  
  
We should aim to become the world's leading digital economy.  
  
This won’t happen if the government continues writing strategies on the
importance of the digital economy, but it can happen if we lead by example.
Government needs to embrace new technologies, leverage data and innovate the
way public services are delivered.  
  
So we’ve established a Digital Transformation Office to deliver services that
focus squarely on the customer. The DTO has not been established to chase
savings - they will inevitably follow if services are so efficient and easy to
use that customers seek them out ahead of less efficient delivery channels
such as over the counter. The DTO will design services that are simpler and
more straightforward. And they will be delivered digitally by default, meaning
that anyone will be able to access services from start to finish online using
their mobile device.  
  
And all new and redesigned services will need to comply with the recently
developed Digital Service Standard.  
  
The DTO will incorporate a large number of projects. Immediate priorities
include:  
  
Check out the DTO blog at www.dto.gov.au for more detail but let me touch on a
few of these projects briefly.  
  
Establishing a robust, economy wide digital identity is central to the
government’s digital agenda. The trusted digital identity framework will
establish a set of principles and standards for the use of accredited
government and third-party digital identities across government. It will also
involve the use of a voiceprint to access services through telephony and
mobile channels.  
  
The ‘tell us once’ functionality will enable individuals and businesses to
update their contact details with the government once and choose to share this
information with other relevant agencies seamlessly through myGov.  
  
And grants administration will be streamlined by developing a simpler grants
administration system across government. The top 12 granting agencies in our
government, which deliver over 90 per cent of grants funding by value, will
transition to two IT systems - down from 15.  
  
The siloed approach to IT investment and service delivery across the public
service is letting taxpayers down. Many agencies are delivering good services,
but they’re delivering them in isolation or as though they’re a standalone
business.  
  
The DTO will overcome these limitations by taking an across agency - or whole-
of-government - approach to investing in common IT platforms that can be used
by every agency.  
  
I’ve already touched on the example of grants administration, but there are
many others, including significant duplication in Enterprise Resource Planning
systems - more than 200 systems, all performing similar functions, have been
identified across the public service.  
  
We will work with agencies to identify opportunities to rationalise
duplicative and wasteful IT spending. We need to learn from past mistakes.  
  
Next steps  
  
Governments across the world are at varying stages of their digital
transformations so the DTO has an opportunity to collaborate with the world’s
leading digital economies. These include, but are by no means limited to the
D5 - Estonia, Israel, New Zealand, South Korea and the UK, as well as state
and local governments in Australia. I have spoken to Victor Dominello, the NSW
Minister for Innovation, and we’re on a unity ticket on the need to
collaborate.  
  
We will also make myGov available to all other state and local governments at
no cost, other than those associated with the initial onboarding.  
  
The DTO, and all other parts of government for that matter, should never be
arrogant enough to believe that Canberra has all the answers.  
  
The DTO will also collaborate with business and the research sector, and I
will have more to announce on this topic as the year progresses.  
  
Now let me touch on a couple of the next steps.  
  
The DTO is working with the public and government agencies to identify a small
number of exemplar services to disrupt, redesign and put in the hands of users
to critique. We’ll start with a handful of them - perhaps three or four. The
idea is to start small but think big.  
  
The emphasis will be on agile design and nimble development. Projects will be
delivered over short, 90-day cycles. This means that the alpha and beta
services won’t be perfect, but it’s a fundamental shift to the way government
has done things in the past. This change should be seen as an opportunity, not
a risk, and will require a fundamental shift in culture. The DTO needs to be
more like a startup in its attitude, tossing aside the rules based,
regrettably blame based, often, culture of the public service to one that
embraces and rewards principles and values.  
  
By releasing new services to the public sooner, we can test them in the real
world and customers can provide feedback directly. Using advanced analytics,
we can spot trends and glean insights that simply wouldn’t be possible under
the traditional approach.  
  
We will soon release a consultation platform on the DTO website so I encourage
everyone to be involved. We’ll also develop a public facing dashboard, which
will report on the progress of projects and investments. A prototype will be
developed over the coming months.  
  
Conclusion  
  
The DTO may well be one of the most exciting projects the public service ever
undertakes.  
  
Its ambition is lofty and its scope is wide. But at its core is a commitment
to delivering better outcomes for the people who access government services -
which is all of us, at least once a year.  
  
The DTO’s mission is to improve the customer experience for citizens and
businesses when dealing with government. We will achieve this by designing
services that are simpler and easier to use.  
  
The key is to focus with a laser like attention on the customer. That is the
key – make that customer experience more engaging, more valuable, more
interesting, easier to undertake. The savings will follow inevitably. Digital
transactions are so much cheaper than over the phone transactions, postal
transactions or over the counter transactions, if you make your digital
platform as engaging as possible for the citizen, and you just think about the
citizen, think about your customer, then you’ll have a lot more happy
customers and your savings will follow.  
  
This is a very important change because very often as you know changes to IT
in government have been focused on cost cutting, how can we save money, and it
has been very inward looking, how can we make it easier for us, the
government? How can we simplify what we do? The critical thing is to focus on
the customer.  
  
I believe we can achieve all of this through a stronger commitment to
innovation and collaboration and I hope and I expect that you will join us on
this exciting journey.  
  
We are determined, and I know there is the same level of commitment at every
level of government around the country, to transform government so that it
serves the citizen in the most compelling and engaging manner possible.  
  
Thank you.  
  
[1] From the Iconic  
  
[2] From the ABS (Feb 2014):  
  
[3] ACMA Communications Report  
  
[4] Australian Connected Consumer Report, (pp 49-50)Our city slept uneasy - if it slept at all - the night of 15 December 2014.  
  
The warmth of summer, the last minute plans for dinners and holidays and
presents the bright eyed excitement and anticipation of a city of children -
it was the week before Christmas.  
  
And then into our midst. Evil, hatred, death.  
  
The city had gone to bed that night praying the siege would end peacefully.  
  
No effort was spared to ensure it did. But in the early morning of 16 December
our peace was shattered by a cruel and murderous hatred.  
  
Two beautiful young and courageous people were killed.  
  
The cafe manager Tori Johnson and Katrina Dawson, a brilliant barrister and
mother of three young children.  
  
The next morning, only hours after the siege had ended, I was travelling on a
train across the city.  
  
There was a numb shock in the carriage. A still silence. Nobody spoke. A young
man gazed blankly into the middle distance. Was that a tear? He looked away
and wiped his face. Two girls stared at their smart phones, could find no
distraction and then, without a word hugged.  
  
Each of us was drawn into our inner self as we tried to rationalise the horror
that had invaded not just our city's heart, but our own.  
  
But as we clattered across the Harbour Bridge, wrapped in such deep sadness,
there was a determined love in that train, in those hearts, a love too strong
to be intimidated by hatred.  
  
A love that was as wise as it was determined. Determined not to be fearful.
Wise to confound, and not to further, the work of those who seek to harm us.  
  
The heart of the city, the heart of our people knew that hatred was weak and
that love was strong. Knew that the object of hatred is yet more hatred.  
  
Through the day that followed in Martin Place, in St Mary's Cathedral - all
across our nation - we saw such strength from our community as we all
affirmed, in a hundred different ways, love's triumph over hate.  
  
Martin Place became a field of love. And each of those who laid a flower drew
strength from all the others.  
  
A young bride, a moslem, still in her wedding dress, laid down her bouquet.  
  
#I'llridewithyou.  
  
Sometimes it feels as though we are on a flimsy boat tossed about on a sea of
hate.  
  
Yes, there is plenty of hatred in this most imperfect world of ours, but our
boat is not flimsy. Far from it.  
  
It is made of the strongest timber, it is made of deeply held democratic
values founded in the love of and respect for humanity.  
  
Frail and selfish, foolish and unforgiving - we can be all those very human
things.  
  
But when we love, then in the midst of this deep mystery, then - more than
ever, we are closest to God.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (15:23): If Bill Shorten
is the answer, one shudders to think what the question may be. Really, we are
being advised by the Labor Party on entrepreneurship, advised by a party that,
when it was in government, had not one member of its cabinet—not one—that had
ever been in business, no business background at all. The serried ranks of
apparatchiks—there they are before us. That is the problem with the Labor
Party. It has no understanding of business.  
  
  
  
I am thrilled that the member for Blaxland has met with Tan Le in Silicon
Valley. It is good. It is obviously a new experience for him to go there to
Silicon Valley. I have been going there for decades. I have started over a
dozen companies myself. And, by the way, so have many of my colleagues,
because one of the big differences between our side of politics and Labor's is
that we do not theorise about business, large or small; we do not believe that
government is the solution to every business problem; we know that it springs
from the enterprise and entrepreneurship of millions of Australians. The
fundamental problem with the Labor Party, Madam Speaker—and you heard it from
the member for Blaxland today—is that Labor believes in its heart, in its DNA,
that government knows what is best. We believe government's role is to enable
you to do what is best.  
  
Tan Le is a very impressive Australian entrepreneur. I have made her
acquaintance too. She is quite a star in Silicon Valley, among the many
Australian entrepreneurs there. And do you know what she raised with me, Madam
Speaker, when I was there sometime ago? She complained to me about the fact
that the Labor Party had so wrecked the employee share scheme legislation that
start-up companies in Australia could not afford to offer shares or options as
incentives to their employees. And she was not alone. The single most common
complaint I have had from entrepreneurs in the technology space, talking about
the legislative priorities that this parliament should address itself to, is
about this fundamental problem. In 2009, in a fit of madness, the Labor
government decided that any employee that was given an option or a share by
their employer, even if it was in a start-up, where the shares could be worth
a lot or—more likely, regrettably, given the success rate of small
companies—nothing, would be taxed. Even there, those shares, those bits of
paper, would be taxed and they would have to go and borrow the money to pay
the taxes. Of course, as usual, what happened? Only the very largest companies
could hire the accounting firms and the lawyers, at great expense, to
structure their way around it. And what did one small Australian start-up
after another do? It moved precisely to where the member for Blaxland was—to
Silicon Valley. So I would say to the honourable member: that is an absolute
own goal, a complete own goal.  
  
As for crowdfunding, yes, it is an important part of the mix and, yes, the
government will be presenting legislation on that later in the year. It is,
however, very important to get it right, because crowdfunding has to balance
the powerful aggregational powers of the internet—being able to get a
meaningful amount of money in lots of small bits—with consumer protection.
Getting that balance is critically important, so it is worthwhile taking care
to ensure that the legislation is drafted correctly.  
  
Let us turn now to the question of coding and STEM subjects in schools. I
think all honourable members agree that it is a very, very important part of
our curriculum, of our educational objectives, to ensure that people—young
children, in particular—have experience with coding. As a father of a
schoolteacher whose teaches coding at her school, I am aware of the keen
interest that young people have in this area. I just want to remind the
honourable member that the government is investing $3½ million—as part of $12
million in an Industry, Innovation and Competitiveness Agenda—to support the
teaching of STEM subjects. We are focused on promoting STEM subjects in
schools and increasing the amount of coding taught in schools. It is very
important, of course, that this be done with the cooperation of state
education departments. It is also very important that we see more students
completing their education with maths or science—and you heard the Minister
for Education and Training talking about the importance of that yesterday.  
  
The Leader of the Opposition's thought bubble on coding and STEM subjects is
quite interesting because, as usual, it is amazingly inconsistent. The
backflips he is capable of are truly athletic. If only he were as eloquent as
he is flexible, he would make a bigger contribution.  
  
In 2008, then Prime Minister Rudd cut the cost of students studying STEM
subjects, but this was then reversed in MYEFO 2011-12, with average student
contributions for mathematics, statistics and science almost doubling in the
cost per unit to about $8,300. They then extended this to existing students
studying STEM in the following year's budget, resulting in considerable
savings over the forward estimates. This is what the then minister, Senator
Evans, said:  
  
The reduction in student contributions for mathematics, statistics and science
units since 2009 has not been effective in substantially increasing the number
of students undertaking maths and science at university. Students are
predominantly motivated not by price but by their interests, abilities and
career preferences when selecting courses.  
  
This is a very, very important point. The best way to get more students
studying STEM, to get more people starting companies in Australia, is to
ensure that government does not throw up stupid obstacles, such as the Labor
Party's legislation on ESOPs; that government makes it easier to start
companies; that government has a strong economy that encourages resilience,
entrepreneurship and enterprise; and, above all, that government ensures that
it does its job of managing the economy as efficiently as possible.  
  
A big part of my portfolio and the honourable member's shadow portfolio is of
course the National Broadband Network. That was a project—remember this—which
was conceived in 77 days. It was started in 77 days. That was all the time
that Labor took to embark on a $43 billion project. They had no idea how much
it would cost or how long it would take to build. Indeed, just before the
election the Labor Party, so unaware of what this project would cost, were
saying it was costing only $2,200 to pass and connect premises with fibre. Now
that nearly one million premises have been passed across the whole network, we
now actually know what it costs. The real figure is $3,600, plus another $700
for the capitalised costs of the Telstra pits and pipes.  
  
So the reality is that, on this massive infrastructure project, so important
to technology and connectivity, so important to innovation, so important to
all the things the honourable member claims to be committed to, the Labor
Party was mishandling the investment in an extraordinary manner. In fact, Bill
Scales, in his independent audit of this project, said, 'This policy process
that set up the NBN, of Labor, in 77 days was rushed, chaotic and inadequate,
with only perfunctory consideration by the cabinet.' That is the level of
incompetence we have from Labor and the reason why Labor cannot be trusted
when it talks about creating jobs and fostering innovation. Labor wants us to
believe that a government composed of people with no relevant business
experience, with a shocking track record, can somehow or other provide the
spark, provide the leadership, to the entrepreneurs of Australia. That is what
it promises.  
  
Let us never forget that, in those six years, Labor spent $2 in extra spending
for every $1 they received in extra revenue. That sums up this chronicle of
incompetence and why the honourable member's claims to be in favour of
innovation fall absolutely flat.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (16:24): The Tax and
Superannuation Laws Amendment (Employee Share Schemes) Bill 2015 addresses one
of the most damaging acts of the previous Labor government. It did not involve
the wasting of tens of billions of dollars like the NBN project did, but what
it did do was potentially cost Australia billions of dollars. We will never
know what it did cost, but, by changing the law on employee share schemes and
options schemes in 2009, what the Labor government did was to stifle
innovation and disincentivise start-up companies.  
  
The reality is that nobody knows when a new idea or a new company will be
successful or not. Everyone thinks they do; they think that their new project
is going to make them rich but, regrettably, most projects do not succeed,
even more are pretty mediocre and only a handful do really well. But it is
that eternal optimism and entrepreneurship and that spirit of adventure and
innovation that drives our economy. All of the laws that we pass here and all
of the great speeches we give are fine, but what really makes Australia great,
and what provides the jobs and the security for Australians in the future, is
the energy and enterprise of thousands of Australians. I think all of us,
whatever our politics, know in our hearts that that is right.  
  
Some people in this place think that the government can tell business how to
be innovative and can provide business tips. Oddly enough, the side that
thinks that is the Labor Party, which is least qualified to do so. But on our
side we believe that government's role is not to tell citizens, let alone
businesses, what is best, but rather to enable them to do their best. One of
the important things we should do is to make sure that we remove as many
obstacles to enterprise and entrepreneurship as we can; in other words, to
clear the way for that spirit of enterprise to take off. That is one of the
reasons the Abbott government has been so assiduous in cutting regulation and
red tape wherever we can, and we will continue to do that. I hope that the
governments that follow us in the years and the decades to come will do the
same, because there has always been a tendency for governments to create new
regulation as new issues arise, but to fail to prune away the regulation that
is no longer needed or is no longer fit for purpose.  
  
In any new enterprise, and indeed in existing enterprises, it is absolutely
critical to incentivise the staff, the team; and the best way to do that is to
give them a sense of co-ownership. Again, who would argue with that? One of
the ways that that is done in a modern economy is to provide employees with
shares or, very often, with options to acquire shares in the future. The hope
is that that gives them a feeling that they have got some skin in the game and
that they are not just working for wages or some cash remuneration. That is
absolutely critical, particularly with start-up companies, because the reality
is that, with a start-up, generally funds are scarce; what little money is
available is generally going into the acquisition of necessary resources and
equipment and so forth. The people are generally working for below market
remuneration, and their upside is expected to come if the project is a big
hit. Of course, as we know, often it is not, but sometimes it is. So hope
springs eternal, and hence the ability to incentivise your team is absolutely
critical.  
  
  
  
It is practically beyond belief that something as important as this to the
economy of enterprise and innovation and entrepreneurship would have been
attacked by the Labor Party in 2009. The effect of the changes that were made
to employee share and option schemes was that employees became liable to
taxation upon being granted options and being granted rights to shares even
though they had no means of realising the value of what they were being given.
You would have to be very confident to go off to the bank and borrow money,
take out another mortgage on your house or pay tax on some options you had
been given in a start-up company. Yes, it might be the next Facebook—there is
always the possibility of that—but more likely than not it is not going to be
anything of the kind.  
  
This was a change that was absolutely calculated to kill employee share and
option schemes dead. If that was the intent, it worked. It was as though the
previous government had asked themselves, 'What is the stake that we can drive
into the heart of Australian innovation?' They found out, and it worked
perfectly. Big companies could spend a lot of money on lawyers and accountants
to structure things and get around the rules—there were not many that did that
although I know a few did—but the start-up sector basically stopped giving
their employees shares and options as incentives. That obviously reduced their
ability to attract talented people and, as I think all honourable members who
have taken an interest in this matter know—I acknowledge the member for
Chifley sitting opposite me at the table, who on the Labor side has taken a
keen interest in innovation—this became a huge issue with the start-up sector.
Whenever you spoke to people in the start-up sector, particularly in the
technology area, this was the one big complaint they had.  
  
Yesterday in a matter of public importance discussion the member for Blaxland,
the shadow minister for communications, referred to an Australian entrepreneur
in Silicon Valley, Tan Le, and how he had been inspired by her—so he should
have been; she has a really inspiring story. During my visits to Silicon
Valley in recent years, and I think everyone has shared the same experience,
the big complaint from Australian companies over there has been this
extraordinary tax treatment of employee shares and options that the Labor
Party imposed. By the way, that is entirely at odds with global practice.
Everywhere else in the world, one way or another tax is paid—often at a
concessional rate, but it is paid—when the employee either realises the share
or the option or is able to realise it; in other words, when a share becomes
liquid and tradeable. That makes perfect sense because then the employee can
realise the security that he or she has been given and pay the tax. This was
the biggest single concern that people had. Even though it was attacked by the
technology sector, the start-up sector, from the time the changes were made in
2009—and that criticism became more and more intense—it is remarkable and
tells you how deaf the Labor Party has been to the spirit of enterprise and
the spirit of innovation so critical to our economic future that they made no
efforts to change the law. They could simply have turned around and said,
'Whoops, we have made a mistake, let's reverse it,' but they did not.  
  
Mr Husic: We did.  
  
Mr TURNBULL: The honourable member opposite me says they did. That is
remarkable. If the bad law in 2009 was repealed, I wonder why we are going to
the trouble of debating this bill today. The Labor Party did nothing about it.
They made no change to the law; they wrung their hands but we are here
actually getting the changes made.  
  
This is a very important reform, starting from 1 July, in the new financial
year, that will bring the Australian regime on employee shares and options
into line with global practice. It will basically ensure that there will be no
up-front taxation of employee shares and options. It will increase the
deferral period—the taxing point—from seven years to 15 years. There will be
no taxation on the grant of an option. Taxation will occur when the employee
exercises the option, and after exercising the option there is no real risk of
forfeiting the underlying share and restrictions on the sale of the share have
been lifted. There are special tax concessions to employees on the grant of
shares and options in smaller start-up companies, and that is very important
too. It shows the concern the government has. I know honourable members are
familiar with these points, but eligible start-ups that have an aggregate
turnover of less than $50 million, are unlisted and have been incorporated for
less than 10 years will be allowed to issue shares to employees at a small
discount, up to 15 per cent, and issue options on very advantageous
conditions. Options that have been allocated at a discount will not be subject
to up-front taxation, as I noted, as long as they are held by the employee for
at least three years. That means, therefore, that employees will only have to
pay tax when they actually have some value that they can realise, when they
can get some cash in their pocket to pay it. These start-ups will benefit by
having gains on options taxed as a capital gain and not as income and
therefore taxed at the lower concessional rate.  
  
I know, as the Minister for Small Business noted in his second reading speech,
that there have been some concerns, or complaints if you like, from the
industry that these changes could and should go further.  
  
  
  
There is concern that taxation is payable, or a taxing point is realised, when
an employee leaves his employment. There is of course, as the minister said in
the second reading speech, the right to have any tax paid refunded if it turns
out that there was in fact no gain realised on the shares at the time they are
actually granted and become liquid. These are fair comments, and I hope that
the government, over time, will be able to further improve and refine this
legislation. The important thing is that our approach to the innovation sector
is one of enablement. We are making these very important changes in the
bill—and we appreciate the support of honourable members for that—but we will
continue to seek to improve legislation and regulation that affects start-ups
and innovation generally so that, all the time, we can be proactively
improving the environment for Australian innovation, upon which our future
prosperity depends. In other words, none of this should be regarded as set and
forget.  
  
This is a really important first step. It is going to make a very big change
to the start-up sector. It will result in thousands of additional jobs being
created and millions of dollars—perhaps billions of dollars—of additional
value being created in Australia. We will never know the exact numbers, but
the bottom line is that anything that can enable innovation in Australia has
got to be good for our economy and, indeed, for all Australians—and that is
what this bill does. Together with the minister and my colleagues, I commend
this bill to the House.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (20:09): I thank all
honourable members for their contribution to this debate on the Communications
Legislation Amendment (SBS Advertising Flexibility and Other Measures) Bill
2015, and I will now seek to sum up the debate to date. I must refer to the
contribution of the member for Greenway. Her rebuke of me for expressing a
view about the interviewing style of journalists on television and the
inappropriateness of my daring to comment on anything that occurred on public
television was still hanging in the air when she proceeded to give a fairly
forthright critique of the Struggle Street program on SBS. The reality is that
we are all—ministers, parliamentarians, citizens, adults, children,
anybody—entitled in a democracy to express our views about what happens on
television, just as we are entitled to express our views about what happens
here, and may it long be so.  
  
This bill, I stress to honourable members, does not change the current
restrictions on the overall amount of advertising per 24 hours that the SBS
has, and it does not represent any further commercialisation of the SBS. The
SBS is a hybrid model already—most of its revenue comes from the government,
and I will come to that in a moment, but it has an advertising component. What
we are seeking to do, while retaining the absolute number of minutes—120
minutes a day—is to give the SBS the flexibility to have not more than 10 in
any given hour which, as honourable members obviously apprehend, will mean
that they will run more than five minutes, which is their current hourly limit
during the more popular and prime time programs.  
  
It is very clear how we got here. During the six years of Labor government, as
I was saying to the House earlier today, for every $1 of additional revenue
the government received they spent $2. When we came into government we
inherited a growing mountain of debt and a budget that was deeply in deficit.
We have had to make savings, and in my own portfolio that includes savings at
the national broadcasters, the ABC and the SBS, which receive $1.4 billion
every year from the government. I asked the Department of Communications, my
department, to undertake an efficiency study to identify savings that could be
made by improving efficiencies in the back-of-house departments of the ABC and
the SBS; in other words, savings that could be made without reducing the
resources available for programming. It was very important from my point of
view to ensure that the public broadcasters were able to continue to deliver
the same quality content to the public but in a more efficient way. Savings
have been achieved, inspired by—if not entirely in accordance with—the study.  
  
One of the recommendations from the efficiency study was that advertising
flexibility be given to the SBS. In November last year I announced that the
national broadcasters will return $308 million in savings to the budget over
five years. This means the SBS's operating budget will be reduced by $25.2
million and, along with the revenue of $28.5 million generated as a result of
this bill, the SBS's total savings returned to the budget over the five-year
period amount to $53.7 million. In the short term this bill allows additional
advertising revenue to be directed towards meeting the government's efficiency
savings applied to the SBS from 1 July 2015, without affecting its
programming. If these advertising measures are not passed before the end of
this financial year the SBS will need to find other ways to achieve the
necessary savings, which it has indicated may involve reductions in
programming and services.  
  
In the longer term the government's intention from these changes is for the
SBS to become a stronger and more sustainable broadcaster. Advertising
flexibility strengthens the SBS by making it less dependent on government and
helps to secure its future and independence. It is not part of this
government's policy, but honourable members should be very well aware that for
many years there have been advocates on both sides of the House and right
through the television industry, and certainly at the ABC, that the SBS should
be folded into the ABC. That, of course, is something that the SBS is not very
keen on. Giving the SBS greater advertising flexibility, greater financial
independence, will help to secure its independence in the years ahead.  
  
It is anticipated that the SBS advertising measures will result in a total
increase in the SBS's advertising revenue of $28½ million over four years. In
later years, if SBS exceeds that run rate the additional revenue can be
directed towards delivering more distinctive and innovative content and
services in line with its charter responsibilities. I should note—because this
is important, given that the free-to-air commercial television broadcasters
have argued that this is a very bad development, a very bad proposal, because
it will result in some advertising dollars being taken from them—that the two
highest television results for SBS since it started to carry advertising in
2003 were $72.3 million in 2009-10 and $73.4 million in 2013-14, and these
were in large part due to the FIFA World Cup being broadcast. I contrast this
to the advertising revenue earned by commercial broadcasters, of $3.9 billion
in 2013-14.  
  
The reality is that the SBS's revenues are a very, very tiny part of the total
advertising revenues of the television industry. The additional advertising
revenue received by SBS is highly unlikely to have any material impact on the
advertising revenue of the commercial broadcasters. As I noted earlier, the
2013-14 figure of $73.4 million was a high point due to the FIFA World Cup. In
the previous year, without the FIFA World Cup, it was only $58 million. Free
TV, the commercial television stations' lobby group, claims that this proposal
will result in SBS earning $148 million over four years from 2015-16, or $37
million per annum. These are so optimistic that I would say that they border
on the fanciful. But even if one were to accept them, $37 million per annum
represents less than one per cent of the $3.9 billion total commercial
television advertising pool in 2013-14.  
  
SBS already competes for advertising with the commercial free-to-air
broadcasters, and the proposed bill simply does not change this. Audience size
is fundamentally what attracts most advertisers, and SBS has a niche audience
that simply does not compete with the commercial free-to-air sector in this
respect. I have noted honourable members from the opposition saying that it
would be terrible if the SBS were to carry more advertising in prime time,
because it would encourage them to produce programs that were popular. This of
course shows the impossible task that public broadcasters are set. On one
hand, if they produce program after program of remote interest to the
public—say, Sophocles in the original Greek—they will be accused of being
elitist and a waste of taxpayers' money. On the other hand, if they produce
programs that people actually want to watch, the commercial broadcasters will
say, 'Stop, stop; you're taking our audience.' The reality is that both SBS
and ABC have to tread a line down the middle. It is a question of judgement.
But, on any view, the SBS is an absolute niche broadcaster. For example, over
the past five years the SBS has had no more than four of the top 500 top-
rating free-to-air television programs in the mainland state capital cities
for any given year on either main channels or multichannels. Excluding
football and cycling, this figure drops to between nil and one program.  
  
So, the reality is that this is a sensible, commercial, responsible change to
SBS. It will make it more independent financially. It will give it more
flexibility in terms of advertising. It is simply changing the way in which it
can schedule its advertisements; it is not increasing the number of
advertisements that are broadcast on any day. It will increase SBS's revenues.
At one level I would love to think that the free-to-air television stations
are right in their forecast, but they simply are not. The SBS and the
Department of Communications have gone over these figures very carefully, and
the figure that we are assuming—$28½ million—is a prudent and conservative one
and we think achievable. The figures of $37 million a year that the commercial
television stations have proposed is, as I said, so extreme as to be fanciful.  
  
In its submission to the Senate inquiry on this bill, the SBS itself said:  
  
SBS’s ability to earn commercial revenue is critical to its operating model
and sustainability. As a hybrid funded organisation since 1991, SBS has a
highly evolved workplace culture, operating systems and codes and guidelines
in place to manage the complexities of being a public broadcaster with
commercial activities. The organisation is well-positioned to responsibly and
sensitively manage increased flexibility in advertising and sponsorship in
line with audience and stakeholder expectations, whilst maintaining the
integrity of the SBS Charter.  
  
To summarise for honourable members, to put this all in context: SBS has
traditionally received around 75 per cent of its funding from government,
including its base funding, tied funding for the production broadcast of NITV,
and funding for transmission itself. This financial year, 2014-15, government
revenue to SBS was $286 million. In the same year, SBS's total revenue from
all commercial sources is predicted to be $96 million. Advertising and
sponsorship spikes every four years during the FIFA World Cup, and in 2014-15,
a World Cup year, SBS's revenue, advertising, sponsorship and subscription
channels will be $85.2 million, and that includes additional commercial
revenue from sources such as television royalties, merchandising, rental
income and interest.  
  
So, the changes proposed in this bill have only a minor impact on SBS's
overall revenue make-up, with its commercial revenue share projected to
increase from 25 to 29 per cent of its total revenue over the forward
estimates, and its impact on the rest of the commercial television industry is
somewhere between nil and negligible in real terms.  
  
If this bill is not passed, given the reality that budget efficiencies have
already been signed off on and will be implemented from 1 July, there will be
an immediate, significant and negative impact on SBS. That is the reality. We
were left a growing mountain of debt and an enormous deficit because of
Labor's profligacy. We have had to make savings. SBS is making its
contribution. It surely is outrageous for the Labor Party, having created the
debt problem because of their reckless spending, to then stand in the way of
the government responsibly addressing it. On that note, I commend the bill to
the House.When the Suez Canal was opened in 1859, the total cost of the project was
around three times that forecast the year before the project started[1].  
  
The Panama Canal was a substantially more complex project and the technologies
needed more sophisticated. The first attempt by the French was abandoned in
the 1880s after almost a decade of work, more than 25,000 lives lost and only
a third of the canal completed[2]. It’s estimated that more earth was
deposited in the canal by landslides and storm than the French were able to
dig out. It is now thought that by the time the canal was completed by the
Americans in 1914, its cost overruns were between 70 and 200 per cent.  
  
An expansion of the Panama Canal initiated in 2009 will see vessels carrying
up to 13,000 containers pass through the canal, more than double its previous
capacity. The cost of the project was forecast in 2009 at $5.25 billion and
has so far blown out by $1.6 billion[3].  
  
The history of megaprojects is such that no matter how sophisticated the
technology, or how great our advances in accounting practices, we have
essentially not gotten any better at avoiding serious cost overruns.  
  
One of the leading experts in the field, Bent Flyvbjerg looked at 111
megaprojects conducted between 1910 and 2000 and found that cost overruns have
continued in fairly consistent magnitudes throughout the period. He concluded:
“No learning seems to take place in this important and highly costly sector of
private and public spending”[4].  
  
  
  
Projects dealing with public spending typically tend to perform worse.
Different publicly funded projects typically compete with each other for a set
pool of discretionary funds, meaning there is an incentive to overcook the
benefits and undercook the costs; politicians and project managers feel the
need to become ‘advocates’ to win public support for the project; and there is
a natural tendency for ‘empire building’[5] without adequate cost controls.  
  
Sometimes politicians lapse into fits of irrational exuberance and commit
billions of dollars without even committing to any cost benefit analysis at
all.  
  
Which is perhaps a good segue into discussing the National Broadband Network.  
  
You have all heard me speak before about the foundational mistakes with the
NBN.  
  
First, the Government should never have undertaken the project. In every other
comparable jurisdiction the private sector rolls out telecom upgrades and the
Government provides subsidies to ensure regional and remote areas get a
service. The telcos have the construction and business risk which they are
best able to mitigate. The Government makes a political call and writes a
cheque.  
  
In Australia we have the complete reverse. The Government has the construction
and business risk and as for the cheque - well that went to the telcos.  
  
Second, a project of this size and complexity would tax the resources and
capability of a large telco - but a Government owned start up?  
  
Third the business plan was focussed on technology as ideology - fibre to the
premises as a cult. A rational business would have focussed on the customers
(remember them) and used whatever technologies to deliver very fast broadband
as quickly and cheaply as possible.  
  
Fourth the previous Government hired the wrong people. In this case under
Labor there was a board with not one person who had either built or run a
telecom network and a CEO whose experience was working for an equipment vendor
not building linear infrastructure or running a telco.  
  
I’m sure many of you have heard me speak before about the application of
Moore’s Law and why it doesn’t apply to digging holes; or perhaps you’ve seen
my whiteboard exposition of the economics of last mile telecommunications..  
  
But today I want to talk to you about four important aspects of the NBN, which
are relevant to many other Government,and indeed private sector, projects.  
  
They are:  
  
Overcoming the NBN’s optimism bias  
  
Key questions are: Why was there such an optimism in the project? And why did
it persist for such a long time?  
  
From the very first corporate plan, there were warnings from objective
outsiders that the company was highly unlikely to meet its forecasts. Writing
in the Telecommunications Journal of Australia, in 2011 just after the release
of the plan, experienced analyst Ian Martin summarised the outlook:  
  
“The risks are asymmetric and point the wrong way for NBN Co: ARPU may well be
lower, but there is little prospect it will be higher than planned, take up
may be lower but is unlikely to be higher or sooner, and at best costs may
come out in line with forecasts but there is a good chance they will be
higher.”[6]  
  
The NBN did not have long to wait before it was mugged by reality. By the time
of the election, the company had met only 17 per cent of its 2010 fixed line
rollout target.  
  
  
  
In the meantime, the first construction tender failed; one of the four
delivery partners pulled out of the project; two of the four delivery partners
were demanding higher rates; and another delivery partner was not delivering
at a meaningful scale[7].  
  
And yet the management of the company still boasted that it would earn an
internal rate of return above seven per cent, even declaring: “What is
remarkable is how little the financials changed over the 3 years”[8].  
  
Creating a business plan for a large scale infrastructure project is hard at
the best of times. Creating a business plan involving a wholly owned
Government start-up over a 30 year time horizon was a virtual impossibility. I
am reminded of the words of famous Silicon Valley investor Guy Kawasaki about
the trick to assessing a start-up’s business plan: “As a rule of thumb, when I
see a projection, I add one year to delivery time and multiply revenues by
0.1.”[9]  
  
I say this not to open old wounds or fight yesterday’s battles, but just to
make a larger point about our approach to this project.  
  
As Flyvbjerg and numerous other authors show, cost overruns are frequent and
widespread. This is less an indicator of the competency of those involved with
the project or of the intent to deceive, but more of the inadequate systems of
checks-and-balances in place to ensure that you are looking at the project
with an analytical eye, that you are getting the best information that can be
debated in a rational way – in short, that you are walking into this project
with your eyes wide open.  
  
One of the most noticeable improvements in the NBN project has been in the
quality of advice coming both from the company and the Department. One of the
complaints of the former management was that commitments about the NBN’s
deployment and costs were announced publicly before the project was even
started, and they had little scope to challenge these assumptions[10].  
  
We have of course introduced many transparency measures and increased
oversight[11], with one of the chief consequences being a much more open and
frank relationship between the various stakeholders[12]. As I have said many
times to the management and my Department, don’t tell me what you think I want
to hear; the glee club culture – where any one with bad news is ignored – has
come to an end.  
  
The Anatomy of the NBN’s Risk  
  
The NBN may well be the single biggest infrastructure project the Commonwealth
has ever undertaken. There is a strong case to be made that it is the most
complex. Unfortunately for taxpayers, knowing what we know now, it may also be
the riskiest project that the Commonwealth has ever embarked upon.  
  
The NBN, as I have said many times before, is not like building a bridge or a
mine. These engineering feats are difficult enough, but projects like the NBN
might be considered more difficult because it is not really a single project,
which can be planned for, or designed, in a single exercise.  
  
It is rather, the culmination of 12 million distributed and distinct projects
all rolled into one. Each house the NBN hooks up will carry distinctive
features and challenges – different workforce mobilisation requirements,
different rock types for drilling into the ground and varying quality of
existing infrastructure.  
  
Sometimes when you overcome all of these things, you turn up only to find out
the homeowner has left for the day.  
  
The NBN is a company replete with horror stories about getting customers
connected to the network. Consider some of the recent examples:  
  
But the NBN is not just a construction project. It is also one of the most
complex transformations of regulatory oversight and industry settings ever
undertaken by the Commonwealth; it involves one of the most complex legal and
commercial agreements ever completed by the Commonwealth[14]; and it is the
single largest IT project on which the Government has ever embarked..  
  
On this last point, I want to reiterate how big the NBN’s IT project is.  
  
By the company’s forecast, it will have spent more than $2.5 billion on IT by
the 2021-22 financial year[14a]. At the moment, a quarter of the NBN’s
employees – almost 1,000 workers – are employed in the company’s IT
departments.  
  
It is larger than any comparable Australian Government IT projects.  
  
  
  
VicRoad[15]  
  
It is so hard to manage public IT projects, the subject forms its own
subculture of the megaprojects literature which shows that though the bulk of
public sector projects are completed on budget, there is a ‘fat tail’ of cost
overruns: almost one in five projects end up running off the tracks, with an
average cost blowout of 130 per cent and overruns in time of 41 per cent[16].  
  
  
  
So the NBN is really a project unlike any other. It involves a number of
highly complex work-streams, which in ordinary times the Commonwealth
Government – or any government, for that matter – would be reluctant to
undertake on its own. And they are all interdependent. A delay to one
necessarily increases the delivery risk of another, and so on.  
  
By way of illustration: If four interdependent work streams have an 80 per
cent likelihood they will be delivered on time, then put together the
likelihood of delivery is only 40 per cent.  
  
But apart from the complexity, the other utterly unique feature of the NBN is
its sheer scale. That is why even small changes in the execution of the
business model can add up to very large consequences for the project’s bottom
line.  
  
The company has modelled a range of scenarios – each of them very credible –
that would add $1 billion to its overall peak funding requirement. They
include:  
  
Again, this is a risk I have warned about repeatedly, given that the
experience in Australia and virtually everywhere else in the world has been
that telco users have been trained to expect more bits and bytes for
essentially the same amount of money[17].  
  
  
  
Internal Rate of Return is often how the quality of investments are measured,
so it is a useful metric to measure the commercial viability of the NBN from
the taxpayers’ perspective. As a general rule of thumb – and I would stress
the word ‘general’ – each additional $1 billion in peak funding results in a
deterioration of the Internal Rate of Return in the order of about 10 basis
points. So getting these small assumptions right is absolutely critical.  
  
Difficulties in Mitigating the Risk  
  
There are a limited number of levers any management of the NBN could pull to
improve the economics of the NBN.  
  
But first I want to make a general point about the economics of the project.
Normally, a project like the NBN is a trade-off between time, scope and money.  
  
For example, if you wanted to reduce costs or increase the scope of the
project, you would extend the time needed to deliver it. This was certainly
true early on in the project. Public policy expert Bill Scales noted that the
previous Government completely reconstituted its NBN policy, after the initial
FTTN Request for Tender failed, in just 11 ‘rushed and chaotic’ weeks[18]; had
better planning been undertaken, I suspect we would have ended up with a much
more sophisticated project.  
  
Nevertheless, the point is that the ability to trade-off time for money or
scope has lessened as the project has continued. In fact, in some ways there
are now no trade-offs, only increased risks. So for instance, increasing the
time taken to deploy FTTN or HFC is more likely to add to the peak funding
requirement, because of the risk that customers will substitute to alternative
technologies such as wireless[19].  
  
Indeed, as a study released by the ACMA today will show, in the past year
alone an additional 2 per cent of households have gone wireless only in the
past 12 months alone, and almost one in four Australians aged 25-34 are now
have no landline for Internet or telephony services[20]. So the competitive
threats are very real.  
  
Strategies to mitigate the risks of the project are necessarily limited for a
number of reasons.  
  
First is the underlying policy reasons for embarking on the project, and the
mandate for universal coverage. We have sought to reduce the scope of the
project in terms of the technology we will use, reducing the overall peak
funding requirement by around $32 billion[21], so that we are able to deliver
consumers they services they need – and are willing to pay for – rather than
‘gold plating’ the infrastructure.  
  
But any further reductions in the cost of the project would require revisiting
NBN’s universal coverage mandate.  
  
The cost-benefit analysis into the NBN showed that we could deliver around $6
billion of additional economic benefits with an unsubsidised rollout – that
is, a rollout that delivered broadband upgrades only where it was commercial
to do so compared to our ‘multi-technology mix’ approach[22].  
  
But the Government has explicitly rejected this option. Indeed if there is any
reason for Government intervention in providing broadband at all it is to
ensure coverage where the market by itself would not provide.  
  
Department of Communications research has estimated that over 30 years to
2040, the fixed wireless and satellite networks will result in a net loss of
around $16.8 billion[23].  
  
While we will look at delivering those subsidies most efficiently, we are
absolutely committed to every Australian having access to a world-class
broadband service at an affordable price.  
  
We believe in the potential of the Satellite Service to revolutionise life in
the bush, and the delivery of services such as School of the Air and remote
telehealth.  
  
In the past fortnight, I have written to the NBN Board to ensure we are
maximizing the benefits of the Long Term Satellite and that we will avoid the
mistakes made in managing demand of the Interim Service Satellite Service
where $350 million was spent to deliver a service which delivered little
better than dial-up speeds.  
  
The second difficulty in managing the NBN risk is ensuring we get the balance
right between improving the economics of the project and ensuring we are
acting in the long-term interests of end-users. That is, while it is
conceivable that we could constrain competition and possibly even raise
prices, does not seem to be in the best interests of consumers or the wider
economy.  
  
The mantra against infrastructure-based competition to the NBN was that the
network is a natural monopoly - which doesn’t explain why some very unnatural
anti-competitive measures were legislated to prevent competition.  
  
The truth is that much of what Labor was doing was protecting the monopoly of
the NBN. As the Expert Panel in the cost-benefit analysis found, if
competition produced even small productivity gains that would outweigh the
duplicative costs of competition - and that in the long term would drive
cheaper prices and better service for customers – that would be a good thing.  
  
On the contrary, this Government is committed to fostering competition in
telecommunications in all its forms – network, wholesale, retail. However, we
have to move from what we’ve inherited to where we want to be and that will
take some time and effort. We set out a roadmap for doing this in our
Telecommunications Regulatory and Structural Reform package released last
December. That is an environment in which NBN Co is a player, because that is
the unavoidable reality, but one in which it and other players can compete
fairly and effectively.  
  
What does this mean in practice?  
  
Noting these constraints – and they are fairly fundamental - we are taking
important steps to manage the risk of the rollout.  
  
We have made substantial progress on mitigating the risk in the project over
the past 12 months. I am substantially more confident on its prospects than I
was this time last year.  
  
In particular, the NBN has managed to:  
  
But most importantly, the company is acting like a business. NBN Co’s
management has been able to complete a full top down, bottom up overview of
the company. For the first time since its creation, the company has a
sophisticated view of its customers, its costs and its operations. The
company’s forecasts are increasingly believable, and I have confidence that it
is actively seeking out and mitigating risk.  
  
There are still many unknowns of course. If only NBN Co’s management could
invent a time machine! But I am pleased that the management have recognised
that there are many things that they don’t know, and are remaining flexible.
What do you do in the face of so much uncertainty? You maximise for
flexibility so you can adopt the best strategy for each situation. This is, of
course, the heart of the Multi-Technology Mix approach.  
  
Implications for Future Projects  
  
So while we have learnt many lessons specific to the NBN project, I thought I
would outline some of the more general points and their application to future
infrastructure projects.  
  
The first is that the architects and managers of projects need to be
accountable for the things that they can deliver on and less focussed on the
things they can’t. The main reason the original NBN financial model seemed so
impermeable to the constant stream of real-world data that suggested the plan
could not be delivered was that its IRR relied on very large revenue increases
and thus operating margins in the future coupled with a hefty multiple on the
project’s terminal value thirty years hence.  
  
NBN Co has been criticised for producing a corporate plan in 2014 that only
had a financial and operational outlook of 12 months. In fact this was a
necessary compromise given the uncertainties the new management had to deal
with. The upside of this approach was the focus on delivering in the near term
and I am confident to say that by the end of the financial year the NBN should
be able to meet most, if not all, of the targets in that plan - a rarity
throughout this project. The upcoming corporate plan will include a financial
and operational forecast for at least the next three years.  
  
Secondly, risks should be assigned to those parties best equipped to deal with
them. In the telco world, this is typically those parties that have the
workforces and long histories in deploying networks. As the NBN found, even
construction companies who have been in the industry for a long time found it
incredibly difficult to quote for work and deliver on budget.  
  
There can be no substitute for the industry having ‘skin in the game’.
Everywhere in the world, the basic public policy strategy was for the
Government to offer subsidies for areas which were uneconomic and then passing
on the delivery risk to the private sector. In Australia, the Government has
taken on all the delivery risk, while those in the industry have for the most
part asked for better infrastructure, better customer service, quicker
delivery - and all for lower prices.  
  
And finally, it is important to reiterate - as indeed I have been doing ever
since I started as Shadow Minister five years ago - about the need for
transparency and independent oversight.  
  
One of the distinctive features of the NBN project was the lack of
benchmarking against other similar projects around the world.  
  
So clearly, you have to do the work up-front to assess a project’s costs and
benefits. But crucially you need systems in place to update data from the
field to get a better understanding of how the project is progressing, and
when it is time for intervention. One of the unique aspects of the project was
that it took almost five years to get a handle on what it was really costing
to connect a premises to the all-fibre network, with the actual cost being
40-50 per cent higher than what the company had publicly been projecting.  
  
In my experience of the NBN - keeping in mind I have spent a lot of time on
the outside looking in, and now on the inside looking out - our learnings
about the project have had an inverse relationship to the excitement it has
elicited in the Financial Review’s editorial pages. The further up the
learning curve we have scaled, the further back in the paper the stories have
ended.  
  
And that’s not a bad thing. The national conversation has to move on from the
pits and pipes to the cool things that people are doing with high speed
broadband - to the innovations, the disruptions, the transformations and above
all the imagination of people taking advantage of the opportunities afforded
to them by the new digital infrastructure.  
  
  
  
[1] Flyvbjerg, B., Bruzelius N., & Rothngatter, W., (2003), “Megaprojects and
Risk”, p.18  
  
[2] The Economist, (2007), “A Path Between the Seas”, available online here:
http://www.economist.com/node/8733772  
  
[3] The Economist, (2014), “Keeping Things Afloat”, available online here:
http://www.economist.com/blogs/americasview/2014/01/row-over-panama-canal  
  
[4] Flyvbjerg, B., Bruzelius N., & Rothngatter, W., (2003), “Megaprojects and
Risk”, p.16  
  
[5] See for instance: Flyvbjerg, B., Garbuio M., & Lovallo, D., (2013),
"Delusion and Deception in Large Infrastructure Projects: Two Models for
Explaining and Preventing Executive Disaster," California Management Review,
vol. 51, no. 2, Winter 2009, p.10 onwards. The authors note specifically:
“politicians, planners or project champions deliberately and strategically
overestimate benefits and underestimate costs in order to increase the
likelihood that their projects, and not their competition's, gain approval and
funding … However, this misrepresentation and failure can be moderated by
measures that enhance transparency, provide accountability, and align
incentives.”  
  
[6] Martin, I, (2011). ‘A significant gap in the NBN corporate plan’ in the
Telecommunications Journal of Australia, pp.51.1-51.11  
  
[7] For example, see http://www.afr.com/business/telecommunications/nbn-at-
war-with-contractors-20130401-j0yo8,
http://www.afr.com/business/telecommunications/nbn-contractors-fail-to-
deliver-20130402-j0yr1 and http://delimiter.com.au/2013/10/15/nbn-
construction-model-failed-says-conroy/  
  
[8] Quigley, M., (2013), “Reflections on the NBN”, A presentation to TelSoc,
available online here:
http://telsoc.org/event/national/2013-12-02/mike_quigley_reflects  
  
[9] Quoted in Anthony, S., (2012), “The Planning Fallacy and the Innovator’s
Dilemma” in the Harvard Business Review, available online here:
https://hbr.org/2012/08/the-planning-fallacy-and-the-i  
  
[10] For instance, former CEO Mike Quigley stated: “There were already public
commitments made before NBN Co got going. The management teams of publicly
funded infrastructure projects are not in control of the delivery timetable
they are held to – something, it seems, NBN Co will continue to grapple with.”
Source: Quigley, M., (2013), “Reflections on the NBN”, A presentation to
TelSoc, available online here:
http://telsoc.org/event/national/2013-12-02/mike_quigley_reflects  
  
[11] Statement of Expectations, dated 18 April 2014,
http://www.communications.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0014/221162/SOE_Shareholder_Minister_letter.pdf  
  
[12] For example, the information provided to Shareholder Ministers as part of
the 2015 Corporate Planning process has been of much higher quality than in
previous years.  
  
[13] Information provided by the NBN Co  
  
[14] David Thodey famously described the Definitive Agreements between Telstra
and the NBN as “some of the most complex, perhaps, agreements ever signed in
corporate Australia's history” (Telstra, 2011, “NBN Analysts Briefing
Transcript” available online here:
http://www.telstra.com.au/abouttelstra/download/document/tls781-nbn-analyst-
briefing-transcript.pdf). In fact, the complexity of the agreements were so
severe they presented a large ongoing burden on both companies and added to
the execution risk of the project. As Andy Penn noted after the new agreements
were signed: “We’ve also improved and simplified the agreements based on what
we have learned working with the original agreements over the last three
years. This includes removing some of the complexity in reporting processes
and the payments are now much more simply linked to the rollout of NBN.”
(Telstra, 2014, “Telstra signs revised NBN Definitive Agreements – analyst
briefing transcript”, available online here:
http://member.afraccess.com/media?id=CMN://3A416771&amp;filename;=20141216/TLS_01585078.pdf)  
  
[14a]Figures are approximate and include capital and operational expenditure.
An earlier transcript of this speech referred to ‘IT capex’. This has been
corrected.  
  
[15] Victorian Auditor General, (2014), “Impact of increased scrutiny of HVHR
projects”, available online here:
http://www.audit.vic.gov.au/publications/20140626-HVHR-Projects/20140626-HVHR-
Projects.pdf  
  
[16] Budzier, A., & Flyvbjerg, B., (2012), “Overspend? Late? Failure? What the
Data Says About IT Project Risk in the Public Sector”, in Commonwealth
Governance Handbook 2012/13: Democracy, development and public administration,
pp.145-147  
  
[17] See for example the Government’s response to the Senate Select Committee
on the NBN, 30 April 2014, http://www.malcolmturnbull.com.au/media/response-
to-the-senate-select-committee-on-the-nbn  
  
[18] Scales, B., (2014), “Independent Audit: NBN Public Policy Processes”,
available online here:
http://www.aph.gov.au/~/media/02%20Parliamentary%20Business/22%20Chamber%20Documents/223%20Tabled%20Papers/Documents%20Presented/Out%20of%20session/040814_audit_report  
  
[19] The NBN Co estimates that a nine month delay in the rollout of HFC will
reduce overall take-up by one per cent, due to substitution to alternative
products.  
  
[20] As reported in CommsDay: “12% Segment of Mobile-Only Australian Adults
Set to Expand: ACMA”, 11 June 2015.  
  
[21] NBN Co, (2013), Strategic Review  
  
[22] Expert Panel, (2014), “Independent cost‐benefit analysis of broadband and
review of regulation” available online here:  
  
http://www.communications.gov.au/__data/assets/pdf_file/0003/243039/Cost-
Benefit_Analysis_-_FINAL_-_For_Publication.pdf, page 11, chart 2.  
  
[23] See http://www.malcolmturnbull.com.au/media/why-labor-got-it-wrong-on-
broadband-in-the-bush.  
  
[24] For instance, former Minister Stephen Conroy said: “The NBN Co board and
myself as shareholders have to take the responsibility for believing that
these companies could deliver on their contractual obligations. And when they
didn't in the Northern Territory case, we got money back off them and we
sacked them and we put in place in a different operation. So ultimately - and
I think I said this on Friday - I think the construction model that NBN Co put
in place hasn't delivered. But it hasn't delivered based on contractual
obligations not being met by these construction companies”. Source: ABC
Lateline, (2013), “Stephen Conroy Discusses NBN and Working With the
Construction Industry”, available online here:
http://www.abc.net.au/lateline/content/2013/s3868978.htm  
  
[25] NBN Co, (2015), “New NBN Construction Contracts to Spur Multi-Technology
Rollout”, available online here: http://www.nbnco.com.au/corporate-
information/media-centre/media-releases/new-nbn-construction-contracts-to-
spur-multi-technology-rollout.html'Australia’s Future Workplace'  
  
CEDA Conference  
  
19 June 2015  
  
  
  
When Lord Byron travelled to Greece in 1812, he declared:  
  
Fair Greece! sad relic of departed worth![1]  
  
Immortal, though no more! though fallen, great!  
  
In many ways, he wasn’t just talking about Greece’s ‘departed worth’ as
measured just by its cultural or artistic output, but actual economic output.
As Angus Maddison’s project to track historic national accounts shows,
Greece’s per capita income in the age of Byron was only around 20 per cent
higher than it was in the age of Plutarch [2].  
  
For many millennia, economic life was much the same for each successive
generation.  
  
The problem of rapid technological change - and with it, the displacement of
wide chunks of the labour force - is a relatively new one. Perhaps the first
social movement protesting against automation and the threat it poses to
labour was the Luddite movement in the early 19th century; workers protesting
at Foxconn facilities about being replaced by robots is the latest incarnation
of this same problem[3].  
  
In 1930, John Maynard Keynes wrote of the fantastic and frenetic changes
occurring around him, with output per head in U.S. factories increasing 40 per
cent in a period of just five years. “The increase of technical efficiency,”
he wrote, “has been taking place faster than we can deal with the problem of
labour absorption”[4]. He predicted that within a century, output per head
would be four to eight times greater; and that the work week would be reduced
to around 15 hours, to be replaced by a culture of leisure.  
  
He was right in terms of growth - 85 years on and the Australian and U.S.
output per head has grown by a factor of six[5].  
  
And there has also been a huge shift of jobs from traditional sectors. In
1900, one in four Australians were employed in the agriculture sector[6]. As
of May, agriculture accounted for slightly more than 2 per cent of total
jobs[7]. As late as 1970, manufacturing accounted for 28 per cent of the
workforce; it now accounts for just over 7 per cent of jobs.  
  
The short point is that in an open, dynamic, globally competitive market
economy, jobs lost in relatively declining sectors will be made up for in new
ones.  
  
What Keynes didn’t foresee, however, was just how transformative new
innovations would be; bringing not just new ways of creating old products, but
new waves of demand and need for skilled inputs.  
  
Economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz famously wrote about the “race
between education and technology” and it appears that humans have, for the
most part, stayed ahead of the curve of technological change by moving up the
value chain faster than computers[8].  
  
A 1965 NASA report sums up our inherent advantage. “Man is the lowest-cost,
150-pound, nonlinear, all-purpose computer system which can be mass-produced
by unskilled labor.”[9]  
  
But as Hugh Durrant-Whyte and a team of NICTA researchers point out, 40 per
cent of the workforce - or around 5 million Australian jobs - are at high risk
of being replaced by computers in the next 10 to 15 years[10].  
  
This study largely reinforces a study by Oxford’s Martin School in 2013, which
found that a slightly larger proportion of U.S. workers - around 47 per cent -
will have their jobs threatened by computerisation in coming years[11].  
  
Part of the answer for Australia’s workers is contained in these two studies -
we are slightly less prone to automation than U.S. employees because of the
makeup of our workforce, with relatively fewer workers in the service
sector[12].  
  
What is different about the current wave of disruption - referred to by some
authors as the new wave of the industrial revolution - is the pace of change,
driven in large part by a confluence of trends. Each would be significant
enough to disrupt traditional jobs, industries and business models in their
own right, but together they’re having an irrevocable impact; not only on the
way we work, but on just about every aspect of our lives.  
  
This is no ordinary disruption  
  
The key to our future economic prosperity - our competitiveness and progress -
is, in large part, contingent on our ability to counter some trends and
embrace others. They include:  
  
As with previous cycles of technological progress, where the application of
new technologies has lead to greater automation - particularly in agriculture,
manufacturing and now mining - the current wave of disruption will inevitably
result in job losses in other areas susceptible to automation and
standardisation.  
  
While the prospect of 5 million jobs being lost to computers is alarming, it
does not consider the types of jobs that will be created in the future.
Technology will be leveraged to develop new goods and services, new
innovations will emerge, and companies most susceptible to disruption will
reinvent their business models, as many - though not all - are doing today.  
  
Take Netflix as an example. In less than a decade they cannibalised their DVD
by mail business with an on-demand video streaming service. Today Netflix
accounts for 30 per cent of downstream web traffic in North America, has 60
million subscribers worldwide and employs 2450 people. Many of those jobs - at
least at Netflix - would not exist today had they not cannibalised their old
business model[17].  
  
So while many jobs and in some cases entire industries are at risk of being
replaced by computers, technology can be harnessed to create a net increase in
employment. Our challenge is to ensure that enough Australians have the skills
and technological imagination to take advantage of new technologies; to
approach disruption as an opportunity to invent and create, and not something
that we seek to prevent.  
  
As Hugh Bradlow from Telstra observes in his chapter, “One certainty about the
economy and employment in the years ahead is they will be shaped and affected
by new technology.”[18] The reality is, the future is here now so we must be
prepared to embrace change and uncertainty as our friend, not our foe.  
  
Role of government  
  
The question therefore is: how, in the face of unprecedented technological and
demographic change, can we ensure that more jobs are created than are lost?
And how do we ensure that the jobs created will deliver a higher standard of
living than they do today?  
  
The aim is not, as Labor used to say, "future proofing." That’s neither
possible nor desirable. It sees the future as a threat not an opportunity. We
need to ensure we have infrastructure and the skills to embrace the future, to
make volatility our friend so that we can take advantage of all the
opportunities rapid change will involve.  
  
STEM and ICT skills  
  
Let me pick up on education and skills.  
  
Improvements in educational attainment and workforce skills enabled Australia
to respond, and ultimately benefit from, past waves of technological
disruption. For the most part, wages have increased and so too has
discretionary spending, creating demand for new goods and services, and
ultimately improving our standard of living.  
  
In terms of formal qualifications, Australia has a highly skilled workforce.
25 per cent of Australians have a tertiary qualification, and nearly 40 per
cent of 25-34 year olds have a bachelor degree or higher - this is above both
the OECD and G20 averages[19].  
  
But despite our educational attainment, we must ensure that students are
graduating from secondary school and university with the skills to succeed in
a more competitive, globalised world.  
  
In a volatile age of rapid disruption, agility and optionality are key assets.
I always discourage young people from studying law - unless they want to be a
lawyer. STEM subjects, including computer science; financial subjects, even
the liberal arts are far better grounding than an arid vocational degree which
will never be used in the profession.  
  
As Catherine Livingstone observed at the National Press Club earlier this
year, “We need to move urgently from a discussion about protecting the jobs of
today, to creating the jobs of the future. This includes ensuring that there
is a workforce skilled in attributes required by business.”[20]  
  
We know that advances in computing and software in particular are driving the
latest wave of disruption, and yet there has been a sharp decline in the
number of students studying computing at university. A recent report from the
Australian Computer Society and Deloitte Access Economics found that demand
for ICT workers in Australia will increase by 100,000 people over the next
five years[21]. But the number of IT graduates with a bachelor or postgraduate
qualification almost halved between 2002 and 2013. Despite a marginal increase
in the number of engineering graduates, there is a clear gap between the
forecast demand for ICT workers and the current pipeline of supply.  
  
This is a clear market failure and something that we must urgently address.
Business and political leaders - and of course universities and school
counsellors - have an important role to play in promoting the benefits of
courses such as computer science. We need to move beyond outdated stereotypes
of the IT worker as a nerdy guy in a brown cardigan and promote the virtues of
a computing qualification as an excellent generalist degree - the Arts or Law
degree of the 21st century. In Australia, almost half of all workers with an
ICT qualification work in non-ICT fields such as advertising, and 52 per cent
work in industries outside of ICT itself[22].  
  
And while much more needs to be done to increase the pipeline of secondary
school students that go on to study computing at university, a second and
equally important point is this: technology is at the heart of just about
everything we do, so more workers across the economy - regardless of their
occupation - will require generalist STEM skills if Australia is to remain a
competitive, prosperous country with a high social welfare safety net.  
  
The importance of STEM to the economy should not be underestimated, nor is it
new. As Australia's Chief Scientist, Professor Ian Chubb, has observed,
approximately 65 per cent of Australia's economic growth per capita in the 40
years to 2005 came from improvements in our use of capital, labour and
technological innovation. And demand will continue to accelerate - 75 per cent
of the fastest growing occupations now require STEM skills and knowledge[23].  
  
Our education system must equip students with the skills to meet this demand.
Like reading, writing and arithmetic, ICT skills such as coding and
computational thinking are becoming so critical that they should be embedded
across the curriculum - from Foundation to Year 10 as part of the digital
technologies syllabus.  
  
While digital literacy is critical, given the rate of technology adoption in
Australia - even among very young children - it is important that we move
beyond only teaching students how to consume technology and instead focus on
technology creation.  
  
Last year the UK's ICT curriculum was replaced by a new computing curriculum,
with students as young as five and six receiving coding lessons. As Michael
Gove, the former Secretary of State for Education, explained:  
  
"ICT used to focus purely on computer literacy - teaching pupils, over and
over again, how to word-process, how to work a spreadsheet, how to use
programs already creaking into obsolescence; about as much use as teaching
children to send a telex or travel in a zeppelin."  
  
"Our new curriculum teaches children computer science, information technology
and digital literacy: teaching them how to code, and how to create their own
programs; not just how to work a computer, but how a computer works and how to
make it work for you[24].  
  
I strongly support this position and encourage educators in Australia to
embrace machine languages and computational thinking as skills that are as
fundamental in the 21st century as reading, writing and arithmetic.  
  
Of course education is not the exclusive right of those enrolled in the school
and university systems. There needs to be a renewed focus on upskilling - or
reskilling - and career development, particularly in industries most
susceptible to automation. This could occur through traditional on the job
training, specialist courses, or vocational education.  
  
The Government is investing $3.5 million in a "coding across the curriculum
programme" to ensure all students gain exposure to coding in primary and
secondary schools.  
  
And we have committed $500,000 to trial a P-TECH style programme in Geelong.
P-TECH is an education pathways partnership between IBM and the New York
Education Department where students graduate with an associate degree, along
with the skills to continue studying or transition directly into an IT job.  
  
Conclusion  
  
We are living through the most exciting times in human history. The pace of
change is exhilarating.  
  
But we cannot foresee with certainty how the future will unfold.  
  
We do however know that the world is being transformed by an unprecedented
number of technology trends; trends that are reshaping just about every part
of our lives - not least of which is jobs and the labour force.  
  
[1] Byron, Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage  
  
[2] See The Maddison-Project, (2013), “Historic National Accounts” available
at: http://www.ggdc.net/maddison/maddison-project/home.htm. Adjusted to 2000
US dollars, the per capita income of Greece was $960 in 1830 compared to $800
in the year 0. As Josiah Ober notes in his excellent new book Rise and Fall of
Classical Greece, the rate of technical and developmental advancement in
classical Greece was as great as it was at the start of the modern era.
Source: Ober, J. (2015) The Rise and Fall of Classical Greece.  
  
  
  
[3] The Economist, (2011), “Robots Don’t Complain”, online here:
http://www.economist.com/node/21525432  
  
[4] John Maynard Keynes, (1930), “The Economic Possibilities of our Grand
Children”.  
  
[5] In 1931, output per head in Australia was $4,354 in 2000 US dollars; as of
2010, it was $25,584  
  
[6] Connolly, E., & Lewis, C., (2013), “Structural Change in the Australian
Economy”, RBA bulletin, available at:
http://www.rba.gov.au/publications/bulletin/2010/sep/pdf/bu-0910-1.pdf; see
also, ABS, (2001), “A Century of Change in the Australian Labor Market”,
available at:
http://www.abs.gov.au/AUSSTATS/abs@.nsf/Previousproducts/1301.0Feature%20Article142001#Endnotes  
  
[7] ABS, (2015), “Labor Force, Australia, Detailed”, available at:
http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/6291.0.55.003  
  
[8] Goldin, C., and Katz, L., (2007), “The Race Between Education and
Technolgy”, available at: http://www.nber.org/papers/w12984.pdf  
  
[9] Quoted in Brynjolfsson, E., and McAfee, A., (2015), “Will Humans go the
way of Horses”, in Foreign Affairs(July/August), available at:
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/2015-06-16/will-humans-go-way-horses  
  
[10] CEDA (June 2015), Australia’s future workforce? pp.6, 60.  
  
[11] Frey, C., & Osborne, M., (2013), “The Future of Employment: How
Susceptible are Jobs to Computerisation?”, available at:
http://www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/downloads/academic/The_Future_of_Employment.pdf  
  
[12] CEDA (June 2015), Australia’s future workforce? p60.  
  
[13] [email protected]/*  */ Blog, (2014), Moore’s Law and Computer Processing
Power, available at: http://datascience.berkeley.edu/moores-law-processing-
power/  
  
[14] Global Mobile Statistics, (2014), available at:
http://mobiforge.com/research-analysis/global-mobile-statistics-2014-part-a-
mobile-subscribers-handset-market-share-mobile-operators  
  
[15] Beta News, (2014), “The Global Supply Chain Behind the iPhone”, available
online here: http://betanews.com/2014/09/23/the-global-supply-chain-behind-
the-iphone-6/g  
  
[16] Australia Youth Unemployment, (2015), available at:
http://www.tradingeconomics.com/australia/youth-unemployment-rate  
  
[17] Forbes, “Global 2000 List” available at:
http://www.forbes.com/companies/netflix/ and Smith, C., (2015), “50 Amazing
Netflix Statistics and State” available at:
http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/netflix_statistics-facts/  
  
[18] Diamandis, P., (2015), “10 Years of Change” available at:
http://peterdiamandis.tumblr.com/post/118118175825/10-years-of-change  
  
[19] OECD (2012), Education at a Glance: OECD Indicators 2012, available at:
http://www.oecd.org/australia/EAG2012%20-%20Country%20note%20-%20Australia.pdf  
  
[20] OECD (2014), Skills and Jobs in the Internet Economy, pp.4–5, available
at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jxvbrjm9bns-en  
  
[21] Simes, R., & O’Mahony, J., (2015), Australia’s Digital Pulse, available
at: http://www2.deloitte.com/au/en/pages/economics/articles/australias-
digital-pulse.html  
  
[22] Ibid.  
  
[23] Australian Industry Group, (2013), Lifting our Science, Technology,
Engineering and Maths (STEM) Skills, available at:
http://www.aigroup.com.au/portal/binary/com.epicentric.contentmanagement.servlet.ContentDeliveryServlet/LIVE_CONTENT/Publications/Reports/2013/Ai_Group_Skills_Survey_2012-STEM_FINAL_PRINTED.pdf  
  
[24] Gove, M., (2014), “Michael Gove Speaks about computing and education
technology”, available at: https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/michael-
gove-speaks-about-computing-and-education-technologyAustralian art, music, literature, film and television are an integral part of
our culture and contribute significantly to our economy. These things that we
value do not exist without creators. These creators need incentives and
rewards for their endeavours, and a robust copyright framework is needed to
provide these incentives and rewards.  
  
The advent of the internet has enriched society with the ability to access and
share information and ideas to an unprecedented degree. Digital disruption,
globalisation, convergence and mass connectivity are upheaving the world
around us and fundamentally changing the way we work, interact and are
entertained. To get a sense of the pace, think that just 10 years ago the
first video was uploaded on YouTube, and Android was a small start-up that
Google had just acquired. No-one had a smartphone. Today, 300 hours of video
is uploaded onto YouTube every minute. On the one hand, the internet is a
platform that innovative businesses have exploited to provide consumers with a
great variety and choice of content and ways to access copyright; however, on
the other hand, the rapid growth of the internet has brought significant
challenges to the protection of copyright due to the ease with which material
can be digitally copied and shared at little or no cost.  
  
Overall, in net terms the internet has been a very positive development, with
profound social, educational and economic benefits. This is, without any
doubt, the most exciting time in human history to be alive, and the internet
is a very, very substantial part of that excitement, of that sense of
disruption and change and innovation and excitement. But it has also caused
some people to treat all content online as something that they are entitled to
access for free, regardless of the views or the rights of the owner. This
attitude has been extended to creative works produced by artists, actors,
directors, producers and writers, who rely on copyright protection to make a
living and to fund the production of new works. Unfortunately, those who wish
to access infringing-copyright material currently have the means to do so
easily and freely.  
  
There is no silver bullet to deal with internet piracy, but the Copyright
Amendment (Online Infringement) Bill 2015 provides an important part of the
solution to the problem of online copyright infringement. It is vital that
copyright owners have an efficient mechanism to disrupt the steady supply of
infringing content to Australian internet users from overseas based websites.
This bill will provide an enhanced, streamlined mechanism that enables
infringing material to be blocked by a carriage service provider—an internet
service provider—without the need to establish fault on the part of that
provider. Specifically, the bill will introduce a new provision that allows a
carriage service provider to disable access to infringing online locations
located outside Australia.  
  
The bill contains a number of safeguards to ensure that the power does not
unduly encroach on other important public and private interests. First, the
provision will only capture online locations where it can be established that
the primary purpose of the location is to infringe, or facilitate the
infringement, of copyright. As I made clear in my second reading speech, these
amendments are designed not to apply to virtual private networks, or VPNs,
that are promoted or used for legitimate purposes. VPNs have a wide range of
legitimate purposes, not least of which is the preservation of
privacy—something which every citizen is entitled to secure for themselves—and
they have no oversight, control or influence over their customers' activities.  
  
I have used the example of an Australian using a VPN to create the impression
that they were located in the United States so that, when the American site
saw the IP address, they would see a US IP address. This Australian could
then—and this is widely done—purchase the content in the normal way with a
credit card. The owner of the Australian rights to the content so acquired
might well be quite unhappy about that, but they could take a remedy against
the American site or the underlying owner of the rights. This bill does not
apply to a site like this. It is not intended to apply to VPNs.  
  
Where someone is using a VPN to access, for example, Netflix from the United
States to get content in respect of which Netflix does not have an Australian
licence, this bill would not deal with that, because you could not say that
Netflix in the United States has as its primary purpose the infringement, or
facilitation of the infringement, of copyright. This is a very important point
to make. If Australian rights owners have got issues about American sites
selling content to Australians in respect of which they do not have Australian
rights, they should take it up with them. The big boys can sort it out between
themselves and leave the consumers out of it.  
  
The second safeguard is the broad range of factors that reflect competing
public and private interests that a court can take into consideration, and
those factors include, for example, the flagrancy of the infringement or its
facilitation; whether blocking access to the online location is a
proportionate response in the circumstances; and the overall public interest.  
  
The Senate Legal and Constitutional Affairs Legislation Committee has
recommended that the bill be passed subject to four recommendations for
improvement. The government thanks the committee for its deliberations and has
accepted all of these recommendations, which have been addressed by the
amendments to the bill and the explanatory memorandum that I am tabling today.
The government has introduced an amendment to the bill which would give the
Federal Court discretion to take into account specified matters in deciding
whether to grant an injunction—rather than being required to take these
matters into account—and what weight to place on these factors. This is
consistent with the approach normally taken by a court in assessing whether to
grant an injunction.  
  
The government also proposes, in light of the committee's recommendations, two
amendments to the explanatory memorandum. The first clarifies that appropriate
orders that the Federal Court may make in granting an injunction could include
a requirement that parties set up a landing page to which subscribers will be
diverted if they try to access a disabled online location.  
  
The second clarifies that, consistent with case law, carriage service
providers should not be exposed to legal actions by subscribers as a result of
acts or omissions in compliance with an order and that the court has
discretion to make appropriate directions on the costs of implementing an
order.  
  
A further amendment proposed is to clarify the operation of the primary
purpose test. Specifically, an online location could have the primary purpose
of copyright infringement even if it operates in such a way that it derives
profits from advertising revenue.  
  
The government has also committed to review the operation of the bill 18
months after its commencement. I want to stress this point that I made
earlier: we recognise that we are living in a very dynamic and disruptive
environment, powered in large measure by the internet. We believe this is a
very good policy response to this problem of internet piracy. We are comforted
by the fact that the opposition is supporting the bill, and I want to
acknowledge the support and constructive collaboration that the Attorney-
General and I have had from the shadow Attorney-General, the member for
Isaacs; and the shadow communications minister, the member for Blaxland. If
this bill does not work as well as we would like, we will look at it again.  
  
Both sides of politics have to recognise that the objective is to ensure that
the creative industries that the member for Griffith was speaking about only a
moment ago are fairly rewarded for their efforts and that online piracy is
brought to an end, so we have to be very agile in our approach to this. This
is a good set of measures. It is the best model we have at the moment, but, if
it does not achieve its objectives, we have got to be prepared to come back
and change it. That is why we are committed to reviewing the operation of the
bill 18 months after its commencement.  
  
The bill is not intended to operate in a vacuum. The availability of content
that is timely and affordable is a key factor in the solution to online
copyright infringement. When infringing sources of content are disrupted, this
disruption will be most effective if Australian consumers have legitimate
sources to turn to that provide content at competitive prices and at the same
time that it is available overseas. Furthermore, the industry code negotiated
by internet service providers and rights holders is intended to provide a
mechanism to inform Australian consumers of legitimate sources of content. The
industry are in final negotiations around how that code will be paid for and
implemented, and the ACMA is currently considering whether to register this
code.  
  
In conclusion, the bill provides an effective contribution towards addressing
the longstanding problem of online copyright infringement and it does so in a
proportionate and balanced way that takes into account other important public
and private interests. It was the result of extensive consultation and it
complements other initiatives by industry. I want to thank all honourable
members who have contributed to this debate for their contributions, and I
commend the bill to the House.Local roads and streets in Wentworth will receive an extra $4.433 million for
vital road upgrades through the Federal Government’s Roads to Recovery
Programme over the next two years.  
  
The extra money will flow as a result of the passage through Federal
Parliament of the fuel excise indexation legislation.  
  
Federal Member for Wentworth, Malcolm Turnbull said every cent of the extra
$23 billion revenue raised through the excise over the next decade would be
invested in road infrastructure.  
  
It means an extra $1.105 billion for councils across Australia in the next two
years alone.  
  
“Every resident understands the challenges our region faces with building
necessary roads,” Mr Turnbull said.  
  
“The extra $4.433 million to local councils in Wentworth over the next two
years means they can now invest in more of the road upgrades we need. This
will deliver a tangible benefit and make our roads and streets safer and more
reliable.”  
  
Councils in Wentworth will receive the following funding:  
  
  
  
The extra funding will increase Federal Government funding for Roads to
Recovery from $700 million to $1 billion in 2015-16 and from $350 million to
$1.155 billion in 2016-17.  
  
Mr Turnbull said the Roads to Recovery Programme had been a popular initiative
since the Coalition Government introduced it in 2001.  
  
“This is a massive boost in funding for our region’s road network and I am
looking forward to seeing the additional opportunities this decision will
create for our councils.  
  
“Over its almost 15 year history, Roads to Recovery has funded the repair and
upgrade of more than 45,000 local streets and roads across Australia, the
largest investment in Australia's local roads ever undertaken. This includes
scores of road and street projects in the Wentworth electorate.”  
  
The extra $1.105 billion being pumped into Roads to Recovery will be paid to
councils under the usual formula as part of their regular quarterly payments
without any requirement for councils to match the extra money.Magna Carta and the Rule of Law in the Digital Age  
  
Speech to the Sydney Institute  
  
7 July 2015  
  
##Check Against Delivery##  
  
Tonight I am going to talk about balancing security and individual liberty.  
  
It is a balance our Government has, I believe, got right.  
  
But in order to ensure we continue to do so, this conversation is one that
should proceed in a considered manner respectful of the views and experience
of others.  
  
And to better understand where we should go, we should not forget from where
we came.  
  
Eight hundred years ago, England’s most despised King affixed his seal to
England’s most venerated document.  
  
As a peace treaty[1] the Magna Carta failed - King John renounced it within a
month, the civil war was resumed and the rebellious barons effectively
renounced it within a year when they offered the throne to the French heir[2].  
  
Most of its 63 chapters are long forgotten[3], but generations of Britons and
their descendants in the New Worlds of the Western and Southern Hemispheres
drew from it the very distillation of the rule of law.  
  
Most important of all is what became Chapter 29 in the 1297 restatement:  
  
“No freeman is to be taken or imprisoned or disseised of his free tenement or
of his liberties or free customs, or outlawed or exiled or in any way ruined,
nor will we go against such a man or send against him save by lawful judgement
of his peers or by the law of the land. We will sell to no man, we will not
deny or defer to any man either Justice or Right.”  
  
Of course the authors of Magna Carta and its interpreters and promoters, like
Coke and Selden, saw the rule of law as protecting the subject from the power
of a King.  
  
But it was not long before the Magna Carta was invoked by philosophers such as
John Locke[4] and later the founders of the American republic to protect the
citizen not from the tyranny of kings - the revolution had seen to that - but
from the tyranny of the majority.  
  
In 1791 the United States’ Constitution’s Fifth Amendment emphatically
cemented the supremacy of the rule of law as administered by the courts of
justice.  
  
“No person...shall be deprived of life, liberty or property, without the due
process of law…”  
  
Carved in stone in congresses and courts, recited in State Constitutions,
Magna Carta has been even more celebrated in the United States than in the
land in which it was written.  
  
And by the time our Australian Constitution was being framed, a century or so
later, these rights were judged inalienable and inherent among the British
people who formed our Commonwealth. In 1925, federation father and by then
High Court Justice Sir Isaac Isaacs described these values “as the base of the
social structure of every British community” growing from the Magna Carta
which he described as “the groundwork of all our constitutions”[5].  
  
The Rule of Law  
  
Australia is a democracy, now one of the world’s oldest. We are often
described as a liberal democracy and by that additional qualification is
signified our commitment to the rule of law.  
  
Some people imagine that a democracy is simply a society where the majority of
the people get to decide who runs the country. But a society where a majority
can do whatever it likes is not a democracy - it is a tyranny.  
  
The notion that the majority entitles the government it appoints to rule as it
pleases is as pernicious a doctrine in our times as the divine right of Kings
was in the time of King John or King Charles I.  
  
The genius of a liberal democracy is that at the same time it empowers the
majority, through the ballot box, it also constrains that majority, or its
government, through the rule of law.  
  
The rule of law, which applies to the government as much as the governed, is
not as widely appreciated as we might think.  
  
Historically oppressed majorities in Syria and Iraq have seen the prospect of
democracy as offering an opportunity to visit the same, or worse, persecution
on the minority as had been, until recently, visited on them. A newly
empowered majority Government in Egypt, the product of the Arab Spring,
promptly set out on fresh waves of persecution against minorities - especially
the Christian Copts.  
  
“Democracy,” Churchill said in a parliamentary debate in 1944, “is no harlot
to be picked up in the street by a man with a tommy gun.”[6]  
  
One of the most important elements of the rule of law is that citizens cannot
be deprived of their life, liberty or property without due process of law.
That requires the decision of a court arrived at after a fair and impartial
hearing of both sides of the argument. This principle is reflected in our own
Constitution which provides in Chapter III that judicial power - the
determination of disputes between citizens and the State - can only be
exercised by the Courts.  
  
Liberty in Times of War  
  
Two lines attributed to Cicero are often cited to challenge the primacy of the
rule of law in times of war or heightened threats to national security. The
first, salus populi suprema lex states that the safety of the people is the
supreme law. The second inter arma enim silent leges observes that in the time
of war the laws fall silent.  
  
Put together many would argue that when the security of the state is under
threat, the claims of security will always trump the rule of law. And there is
no doubt that historically basic rights, including habeas corpus, have at
times been suspended in times of war to allow indefinite detention.[7]  
  
It has been ever thus - Thomas Jefferson observed in 1810 that: “To lose our
country by a scrupulous adherence to written law, would be to lose the law
itself.”[8] On the other hand Benjamin Franklin had famously written thirty
five years earlier: “Those who would give up essential Liberty to purchase a
little temporary Safety, deserve neither Liberty nor Safety.”[9]  
  
Here, equally eloquently, is what the founder of the Liberal Party, Robert
Menzies[10], had to say on the same subject in 1942, during the darkest days
of World War II:  
  
If the day is to come when the courts are to be closed to the aggrieved
citizen, when the King's writ is not to run because popular uproar wills it
so, when the appeal to the law is to be an occasion of scoffing, then that day
will cast a black shadow across British freedom … The law's greatest benefits
are for the minority man - the individual.[11]  
  
The balance between security and liberty will always be controversial and that
is a good thing.  
  
But we need to recognise that getting the balance right is not easy (not least
because the balance may shift over time) and we are more likely to do so if
there is a thoughtful and well informed public debate - weighing up the
reality of the national security threat, the effectiveness of particular
proposed measures and then asking whether those measures do infringe on our
traditional freedoms and if so whether the infringement is justifiable.  
  
It is important to remember that people and societies with an equal
determination to defeat terrorism can have different views on what is the
right balance and, indeed, what the right measures are.  
  
Denouncing those who question the effectiveness of new national security
measures as “friends of terrorists” is as stupid as describing those who
advocate them as “proto-fascists.”  
  
And this debate is not an easy left/right divide. One of the most consistent
and cogent critics of our Government’s legislation on many national security
topics including data retention and citizenship has been the Institute of
Public Affairs. Their recent catalogue of the hundreds of Commonwealth laws
which qualify or overrule traditional legal rights is sobering reading.[12]  
  
A Conservative Approach  
  
There are powerful arguments that existing laws need to be constantly reviewed
and updated to ensure they are still relevant and effective as new
technologies emerge and old ways of intelligence gathering become outdated.  
  
In fact we have an obligation to do so not just to protect our own citizens -
which is reason enough for strong action - but also because of international
resolutions backed by Australia in the U.N. and other forums[13]. While our
security agencies seek to take advantage of new digital technologies, those
same technologies are at the same time making the work of our agencies more
challenging.  
  
But respect for the rule of law is at the heart of what it means be a
conservative. As part of this doctrine, the rule of law imposes on legislators
and judges a conservative caution when making new laws – the idea that, in
general, new laws to quote Dyson Heydon, “should only be changed by a process
of gradual development, not by violent new advances or retreats or revolution
or ruptures.”[14]  
  
Edmund Burke compared the freedoms inherited from the Magna Carta to those
achieved in the revolution in France - inherited freedoms compared to abstract
rights achieved through violent means - and he wrote that only the former had
the permanency to be enforced: “By a constitutional policy,” he wrote,
“working after the pattern of nature, we receive, we hold, we transmit our
government and our privileges in the same manner in which we enjoy and
transmit our property and our lives.”[15]  
  
This approach, that “an old law is a good law”, has been very influential in
the Government’s approach to the Citizenship Act changes.  
  
Instead of proceeding with a proposal which would give the Minister the
discretion to revoke Australian citizenship if he believed the person affected
had engaged in terrorist activities, the proposed amendments build on the
existing provisions in section 34 and 35 of the Act.  
  
The upshot of this is that section 35 will be modernised so that it applies to
people fighting for a non-state actor like Da’esh as much as it applies to a
person who fights in the army of a country at war with Australia. The rule of
law is respected because a person whose citizenship ceases in those
circumstances has full recourse to the Australian courts under the
Constitution to contest the matter on its merits.  
  
Again to quote Menzies:  
  
"To ignore the Constitution, to treat its structure and the limitations it
imposes upon the powers of the Commonwealth Parliament as of no account, to
endeavour by clamour to prevent recourse to the courts for its interpretation,
is to violate the whole conception of the rule of law".[16]  
  
Terrorism - both a process and an euphemism  
  
The 9/11 destruction of the World Trade Centre towers is often referred to as
the beginning of a new “age of terror.” It was on any view the most shocking
terrorist attack in our times and we are still living with the consequences.  
  
But as we commemorate the centenary of World War I we should not forget that
the fuse was lit by an act of terrorism - the assassination of Archduke
Ferdinand on 28th June 1914.  
  
Indeed one of the first act of terrorism in Australia was on New Year’s Day in
1915, when two two Turkish sympathisers opened fire on the ‘Picnic Train’ from
Broken Hill to Singleton, killing six people and wounding another seven[17].  
  
The melancholy truth is that terrorism has always been with us - and no doubt
always will be.  
  
Terrorism is defined in our law as using or threatening violence or damage to
people or property with the aim of coercing the public or a government to
advance a political, religious or ideological cause. It is a wide definition,
applies to acts in any country and includes interference with infrastructure
including telecommunications and power grids.[18]  
  
Our law makes it an offence for Australians to be engaged in terrorist
activities anywhere in the world. The policy justification is that we just
don’t want Australians being involved in conflicts of that kind.  
  
While our laws also make it an offence to join or support specific listed
terrorist groups - such as al Qaeda or Da'esh - terrorism itself is defined
very broadly. Importantly the definition does not form a view as to the merits
of the terrorist activities.  
  
As far as Australian law is concerned, all terrorist activities are unlawful
for Australians to engage in or support.  
  
So if our aim is to eradicate “terrorism” - as opposed to defeating a
particular terrorist organisation like Da’esh - we are unlikely to be
successful. There will always be people and groups who choose to use violence
to pursue political goals. One of the strengths of our liberal democracy
governed by the rule of law is that there are many peaceful avenues to pursue
political goals.  
  
The Nature of the Threat and the Proportion of Our Response  
  
Just as it is important not to underestimate, or be complacent about, the
national security threat from Da’esh, it is equally important not to
overestimate that threat. Any threat looms largest when it is close to us in
either time or space - or both.  
  
In Menzies’ day our democratic way of life was threatened by two totalitarian
ideologies - Soviet Communism and fascism. Each were proselytising ideologies.
One was defeated in battle in 1945, the other expired, largely from its own
contradictions, twenty five years ago. China, the last nominally communist
superpower, does not seek to export its way of government.  
  
But Da’esh is not Hitler’s Germany, Tojo’s Japan or Stalin’s Russia. Its
leaders dream that they, like the Arab armies of the 7th and 8th century, will
sweep across the Middle East into Europe itself.  
  
They predict that before long they will be stabling their horses in the
Vatican.  
  
Well Idi Amin wasn’t the King of Scotland either.  
  
We should be careful not to say or do things which can be seen to add
credibility to those delusions.  
  
Da’esh, more than any of its predecessors, has been able to use the
increasingly ubiquitous Internet and social media to amplify its significance.
As the Prime Minister has observed a jihadist needs only a victim, a knife and
a phone to create an act of terror which will be viewed around the world.  
  
Da’esh’s recruiting formula, often slickly produced, includes the well-known
combination of sex and violence - especially the latter. It works for
Hollywood, so why wouldn’t it work for Da’esh especially when a twisted and
archaic interpretation of Islam is used to legitimise it?[19]  
  
We need to be very careful we don’t get sucked into their strategy and
ourselves become amplifiers of their wickedness and significance[20].  
  
Currently the Government believes there are around 120 Australians known to be
fighting, mostly with Da'esh, in Syria and Iraq with around 160 in Australia
providing them with support[21]. These numbers are larger than on the previous
occasions Australians have travelled overseas to fight in jihadist causes.
Both the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan and the wars following September 11
resulted in small flows of foreign fighters, including Australians, to the
Middle East. And there have been earlier precedents - numbers of Australians
fought in the Balkan Wars in the 1990s and in the Spanish Civil War of the
1930s.  
  
The Government’s policy on foreign fighters in Syria and Iraq is quite clear.
We do all we can to stop people travelling to fight there and many passports
have been cancelled to that end. It is an offence to fight for a terrorist
organisation and indeed to travel to the key areas of the conflict in Syria
and Iraq.  
  
Once somebody has got there and started to fight we do not want them to come
back, trained and brutalised as they are in terrorist practices - and the
recent amendments to the Citizenship Act are designed to ensure that dual
nationals will lose their Australian citizenship from the time they start
fighting with Da’esh[22] thus eliminating any right to return to Australia.  
  
Da’esh is similar but different to al-Qaida from which it evolved. It appears
to place less strategic focus on attacking the West than al-Qaida, as it is
seeking to establish a state of its own - its claimed caliphate. It has
recruited foreign fighters more rapidly than its predecessors - a consequence
of its use of contemporary digital media on the one hand and what appears to
be tangible success on the ground.[23]  
  
Getting the response right  
  
It is more important that counter-terrorism measures be the right ones, the
effective ones, than that they simply be "tough".  
  
Tough policies can be popular, they may even be justified at the time they are
conceived, but they can still be a mistake. I suppose there is nothing tougher
than invading a country, overthrowing its government and occupying its
territory. But with the benefit of hindsight, few today contend that the 2003
invasion of Iraq, popular with the US public and the Congress at the time, was
not a tragic error.  
  
The Islamic terrorist seeks to provoke the state to overreact because it
creates a more receptive environment for the extremists' recruiting efforts
based as so much of it is on perceptions of resentment, oppression and
humiliation.  
  
As the then ASIO Director, David Irvine, said last year:  
  
“we should not let the phenomenon of violent Islamist extremism destroy the
community harmony that is such an essential characteristic of Australia’s
highly successful multi-cultural democracy. That is precisely what violent
extremism and terrorism want to do.”[24]  
  
Recently, the Prime Minister announced $630 million in counter-terrorism
measures, with a particular emphasis on community engagement and engaging with
young men and women, before they become radicalised.  
  
As the Prime Minister said when the package was announced: “The best defence
against radicalisation is through well-informed and well equipped families,
communities and institutions. As such, local engagement is at the heart of
many of these measures.”[25]  
  
Just last night President Obama reiterated this point where he said success
depends on "Muslim communities, including scholars and clerics, rejecting
warped interpretations of Islam and protecting their sons and daughters from
recruitment."[26]  
  
A critical element in countering violent Islamic extremism is authoritative
muslim voices which challenge the extremists’ interpretation of Islam. A good
British example of this is www.imamsonline.com which makes the case against
Da’esh on the same digital platforms as those on which Da’esh campaigns.  
  
One final observation is that broadening the focus of our counter-terrorism
efforts is to acknowledge that in a liberal democracy, the Government cannot
direct the media how to do its job; but neither can the media escape its
responsibility for the consequences of how it reports violent extremism.  
  
On this front, the use of social media by Da’esh has been more sophisticated
and prevalent than perhaps any other terrorist organisation before it. And
organisations like Twitter and Facebook have been forced to reconsider their
policies and have become more active taking down offensive material.  
  
In Australia, these companies continue to work both with the Government to
ensure their response to the publishing of extremist material is appropriate.  
  
More broadly, the media has a powerful role in both fostering a sense of
cohesion and countering extremist material. I note the review into the Martin
Place siege praised the role of the media in not exacerbating what was already
a difficult situation or seeking to inflame the messages Man Monis was trying
to spread[27]. But the damage that sensationalist reporting can do can be
immense.  
  
That debate has come into sharp focus following on from the ABC’s decision to
include terrorist sympathiser Zaky Mallah in a live audience. A number of
issues related to that decision were investigated by the Government[28]
following the broadcast and I won't add to the report of that inquiry. But as
the sentencing judge noted when Mr Mallah was convicted in 2004, providing
such coverage to his views runs the risk of spreading divisive and
discriminatory views[29].  
  
The other, and perhaps most important part of the Government's response to
Da'esh, is of course lending the support of our armed forces to defeating them
in the field. The means of doing so are well beyond the scope of this speech,
but the roll back and destruction of Da'esh in Iraq and Syria is critical to
ending not just their barbaric rule in the Middle East, but their appeal
beyond it, even, as we know, to a few of our own citizens.  
  
Conclusion  
  
It may seem paradoxical that we celebrate the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta
at a time when laws are being adjusted, often controversially, to enhance
national security. But the truth is that in these times, less remarkable than
we imagine, we should never forget the value of the principles of Magna Carta.  
  
And they must live in our hearts as well as on the pages of statutes and
constitutions. I hope we will always believe, as a core political value, that
no one should be punished without a fair trial and that a true democracy
constrains the majority even as it empowers it.  
  
We should always shudder a little, perhaps a lot, when cynics sneer at courts
and laws as just troublesome obstacles standing in the way of justice.  
  
While we are - and always will be - facing new and evolving threats to our
national security, our forebears have faced far greater ones.  
  
In 1939 Robert Menzies, Prime Minister, was leading Australia into a war
against Adolf Hitler, a foe whose march across Europe must have seemed nearly
irresistible. This was an existential threat. And he introduced a National
Security Bill that gave extensive powers to the Government to control the
economy and much of Australia's daily life in what was to become a total war
effort.  
  
His warning to the House of Representatives should resonate down the years to
all of us, especially those in the party he founded:  
  
“The greatest tragedy that could overcome a country would be for it to fight a
successful war in defence of liberty and to lose its own liberty in the
process.”[30]  
  
  
  
Footnotes  
  
[1] In the words of David Carpenter: “John’s opponents had made the mistake of
coming to terms without winning the war. The Charter was a negotiated
document, not one dictated when John was on his knees”. Source:Carpenter,
D.A., (1999), “The Plantagenet Kings”, in Abulafia D., [ed] The New Cambridge
Medieval History Volume 5: c.1198–c.1300, p.329  
  
[2] After being signed on June 15, 1215, Pope Innocent III annulled the Magna
Carta on August 25. By the time of King John’s death on the night of 17-18
October 1216, more than half of England was under control of Prince Louis of
France.  
  
[3] As the great historian on medieval England, Sir James Holt, wrote: “Magna
Carta was secured within a generation but only just”. Source: Holt, J.C.,
(1985), Magna Carta and Medieval Government, p.394  
  
[4] Many of Locke’s ideas were taken up by the U.S. revolutionaries. In his
Second Treatise on Government, he wrote: “Where-ever law ends, tyranny begins,
if the law be transgressed to another’s harm; and whosoever in authority
exceeds the power given him by the law, and makes use of the force he has
under his command, to compass that upon the subject, which the law allows not,
ceases in that to be a magistrate”  
  
[5] “It is essential, however, even at this advanced stage of our political
development, and perhaps none the less because of that development, to bear
constantly in mind certain fundamental principles which form the base of the
social structure of every British community … The principles themselves cannot
be found in express terms in any written Constitution of Australia, but they
are inscribed in that great confirmatory instrument, seven hundred years old,
which is the groundwork of all our Constitutions— Magna Charta. Chap. 29
(sometimes cited as Chap. 39) contains them all. Its words, rendered into
English, and so far as immediately material here, are: "No free man shall be
taken or imprisoned ... or exiled ... but ... by the law of the land." The
chapter, as a whole, refers to other rights as well, and recognizes three
basic principles, namely, (1) primarily every free man has an inherent
individual right to his life, liberty, property and citizenship; (2) his
individual rights must always yield to the necessities of the general welfare
at the will of the State; (3) the law of the land is the only mode by which
the State can so declare its will. These principles taken together form one
united conception for the necessary adjustment of the individual and social
rights and duties of the members of the State.” Source: Ex Parte Walsh; Ex
Parte Johnson; In re Yates (1925) 37 CLR 36, available at:
http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/HCA/1925/53.html  
  
[6] Quoted in Churchill, W., (1953), The Second World War, Vol V, pp.294-295.
Churchill said: “Democracy, I say, is not based on violence or terrorism, but
on reason, on fair play, on freedom, on respecting other people’s rights as
well as their ambitions. Democracy is no harlot to be picked up in the street
by a man with a tommy gun. I trust the people, the mass of the people, in
almost any country, but I like to make sure that it is the people, and not a
gang of bandits who think that by violence they can overturn constituted
authority, in some cases ancient Parliaments, governments and States.”  
  
[7] The debate over habeas corpus has been controversial and has evolved over
time. For example, On April 27, 1861, the writ of habeas corpus was
unilaterally suspended by President Abraham Lincoln in Maryland during the
American Civil War. More recently, the US Military Commissions Act of 2006
purported to suspend habeas corpus for any alien determined to be an "unlawful
enemy combatant engaged in hostilities or having supported hostilities against
the United States". The Supreme Court later ruled in Boumediene v. Bush that
the MCA amounted to an unconstitutional encroachment on habeas corpus rights.
Source: Boumediene v. Bush, 553 US 723 (2008). In the Britain a central
feature of policy post 9/11 was the indefinite detention of foreign national
terror suspects at Belmarsh Prison which continued from 2001 until it was
ruled unlawful by the House of Lords in 2004. Source: A and others v Secretary
of State for the Home Department [2004] UKHL 56.  
  
[8] As Thomas Jefferson wrote, in times of emergency, there is much more power
vested in the executive than elected representatives: “A strict observance of
the written laws is doubtless one of the high duties of a good citizen, but it
is not the highest. The laws of necessity, of self-preservation, of saving our
country when in danger, are of higher obligation. To lose our country by a
scrupulous adherence to written law, would be to lose the law itself, with
life, liberty, property and all those who are enjoying them with us; thus
absurdly sacrificing the end to the means”. Source: Letter to John B. Colvin,
20 Sep 1810, available at: http://press-
pubs.uchicago.edu/founders/documents/a2_3s8.html  
  
[9] Reply to the Governor by the Pennsylvania Assembly 11 November 1775  
  
[10] Indeed in September 1939 after the declaration of war Prime Minister
Menzies said, introducing the National Security Bill: ‘Whatever may be the
extent of the power that may be taken to govern, to direct and to control by
regulation, there must be as little interference with individual rights as is
consistent with concerted national effort…...the greatest tragedy that could
overcome a country would be for it to fight a successful war in defence of
liberty and to lose its own liberty in the process.’  
  
[11] Menzies, R., (1942), ‘The Forgotten People’, Chapter 32 ‘The Law and the
Citizen’ (Originally broadcast 12 June 1942). He stated: “If the day is to
come when the courts are to be closed to the aggrieved citizen, when the
King's writ is not to run because popular uproar wills it so, when the appeal
to the law is to be an occasion of scoffing, then that day will cast a black
shadow across British freedom. For Erskine's "security under the law", mark
you, is not such security as your opponents, being in a majority, may concede;
it is not something precariously dependent upon the whim of a mob. It is that
security to which a man may confidently and calmly appeal, even though every
man's hand may be against him. The law's greatest benefits are for the
minority man - the individual.”  
  
[12] See for instance, Breheny, S., & Begg, M., (2014), “The state of
fundamental legal rights in  
  
Australia”, available online at:
http://ipa.org.au/portal/uploads/The_state_of_fundamental_legal_rights_in.pdf  
  
[13] In September 2014, Australia supported U.N. Security Council Resolution
2178 (2014), which among other things stated that we will act, consistent with
international law, to prevent the “recruiting, organizing, transporting or
equipping of individuals who travel to a State other than their States of
residence or nationality for the purpose of the perpetration, planning of, or
participation in terrorist acts”. Source: UN, (2014), available at:
http://www.un.org/press/en/2014/sc11580.doc.htm. As Prof Williams notes:
“Resolution 1373 of the United Nations Security Council, adopted on 28
September 2001, determined that States shall ‘take the necessary steps to
prevent the commission of terrorist acts’ by ensuring that ‘terrorist acts are
established as serious criminal offences in domestic laws and regulations’.
This gave rise to an obligation on the part of Australia to enact laws
directed at this problem.” Source: Williams, G., (2014), “Does Australia Need
New Terror Laws?”, available at: http://www.cla.asn.au/News/terror-laws-some-
good-some-unneeded/  
  
[14] Heydon, D., (2003), “Judicial Activism and the Death of the Rule of Law”,
in Quadrant, Vol 47, Number 1-2.  
  
[15] Edmund Burke, Reflections on the Revolution in France  
  
[16] Menzies, R., (1942), “The Law and the Citizen”  
  
[17] At the time the War Precautions Act 1914 was in force, which could be
seen as, in part, Australia’s first anti-terrorism legislation. Under the Act
regulations could be created for search and seizure, arrest, detention and to
order the disclosure of information. The regulations even included safeguards,
specifically that ‘the ordinary avocations of life and the enjoyment of
property are to be interfered with as little as may be permitted by the
exigencies of measures required for securing the public safety’.  
  
[18] See Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth).  
  
[19] A study by the Soufan Group on the motivations of foreign fighters
joining the Islamic State noted that: “The French authorities also categorize
volunteers from France as disaffected, aimless and lacking a sense of identity
or belonging. This appears to be common across most nationalities and fits
with the high number of converts, presumably people who are seeking a greater
sense of purpose and meaning in their lives. Indeed, the Islamist narrative of
Syria as a land of ‘jihad’ features prominently in the propaganda of extremist
groups on both sides of the war, just as it does in the social media comments
of their foreign recruits.” Source: Soufan Group, (2014), “Foreign Fighters in
Syria”, available online at: http://soufangroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2014/06/TSG-Foreign-Fighters-in-Syria.pdf. As Thomas
Hegghammer of the Norwegian Defense Research Establishment noted: “Foreign
fighters are overrepresented, it seems, among the perpetrators of the Islamic
State’s worst acts. So they help kind of radicalize the conflict—make it more
brutal. They probably also make the conflict more intractable, because the
people who come as foreign fighters are, on average, more ideological than the
typical Syrian rebel.” Source: Quoted in Stern, J., & Berger J.M., (2015),
“ISIS and the Foreign Fighter Phenomenon”, published in The Atlantic available
at: http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2015/03/isis-and-the-
foreign-fighter-problem/387166/  
  
[20] Berger, J.M., (2015), “How ISIS Succeeds on Social Media Where #StopKony
Fails”, in The Atlantic, available at:
http://www.theatlantic.com/international/archive/2015/03/how-isis-succeeds-
where-stopkony-fails/387859/  
  
[21] Ascertaining the actual number of Australian fighters in Syria and Iraq
is difficult. A study by the Soufan Group in June 2014, quoting ASIS figures,
put the number at around 250. Source: Soufan Group, (2014), “Foreign Fighters
in Syria”, p.13, available at: http://soufangroup.com/wp-
content/uploads/2014/06/TSG-Foreign-Fighters-in-Syria.pdf. A study by ICSR in
January put the number at 100-250. Source:Neumann, P., (2015), “Foreign
fighter total in Syria/Iraq now exceeds 20,000; surpasses Afghanistan conflict
in the 1980s”, available at: http://icsr.info/2015/01/foreign-fighter-total-
syriairaq-now-exceeds-20000-surpasses-afghanistan-conflict-1980s/. A Lowy
Institute study in April quoted ASIO figures, that around 90 Australians were
fighting for jihadist groups in Syria and Iraq, that up to 30 have returned,
and that over 20 have died. Source: Zammit, A., (2015), “Australian foreign
fighters: Risks and responses”, available at:
http://www.lowyinstitute.org/publications/australian-foreign-fighters-risks-
and-responses  
  
[22] Or any other listed terrorist group for the purpose of section 35  
  
[23] As the Lowy Institute’s Andrew Zammit notes: “So far, neither Jabhat al-
Nusra nor IS appear to have made attacks in the West as high a strategic
priority as al-Qaeda’s senior leadership did, and they have a wide range of
other uses for foreign recruits. This contrasts with the situation when
Australians travelled to South Asia to train with al-Qaeda and LeT at the turn
of the century. Al-Qaeda was prioritising attacks within the West, devoting
substantial resources to this purpose, and LeT was actively assisting this
effort”. Source: Zammit, A., (2015), “Australian foreign fighters: Risks and
responses”, available at:
http://www.lowyinstitute.org/publications/australian-foreign-fighters-risks-
and-responses  
  
[24] Irvine, D., (2014), “Evolution of terrorism - and what it means for
Australia” available at: http://www.asio.gov.au/Publications/Speeches-and-
Statements/Speeches-and-Statements/DGs-Speech-12-August-2014.html  
  
[25] Abbott, T., (2015), “Counter Terrorism Measures for a Safer Australia”,
available at: https://www.pm.gov.au/media/2014-08-26/counter-terrorism-
measures-safer-australia-0  
  
[26] President Barack Obama, ‘Update on our strategy to degrade and destroy
ISIL’ (Speech delivered at the Pentagon, 6 July 2015).  
  
[27] DPMC and Department of Premier and Cabinet, (2014), “Martin Place Siege -
Joint Review”, pp.65-71, available at:
http://www.dpmc.gov.au/sites/default/files/publications/170215_Martin_Place_Siege_Review_1.pdf  
  
[28] “Context and decisions regarding the appearance of Mr Zaky Mallah on the
ABC’s Q&amp;A; program on 22 June 2015”, available at:
https://www.communications.gov.au/sites/g/files/net301/f/QA%20NC%20final%20draft%20Summary%201%20July%20%282%29.pdf  
  
[29] R v Mallah [2005] NSWSC 317, at par.37: “Placing a person such as [Mr
Mallah] into the public spotlight is not only likely to encourage him to
embark on even more outrageous and extravagant behaviour but, perhaps more
importantly, it risks unnecessarily heightening the existing public concerns
about terrorist activity as well as encouraging or fanning divisive and
discriminatory views among some members of the community”  
  
[30] Menzies, R., quoted in Hansard, 7 September 1939 at p.165 It is worth
noting the pains to which Menzies goes to note that the Bill does not allow
the Government to introduce conscription by regulation nor to subject any
person not in the military to the jurisdiction of courts martial. “There is,
and I think properly so, a very great objection in Australia to submitting to
this method of trial by court martial persons who are not subject to military
law. There is a very great objection to the notion of a civilian, a person not
subject to naval, military or air force law, being subject to a form of trial
which is other than the usual form of trial to which a civilian may appeal.”
at 166.Australia-China Business Week  
  
Intercontinental Hotel, Sydney  
  
6 August 2015  
  
  
  
  
  
Without wanting to start my remarks on a melancholy note, today 6 August, is
the seventieth anniversary of the atomic bomb being dropped on Hiroshima
followed two days later by another atomic bomb on Nagasaki. A week later Japan
surrendered and so ended the Second World War.  
  
The quarter of a million lives lost in Hiroshima and Nagasaki were among the
last of the more than fifty million people killed in that war of which more
than ten million were Chinese.  
  
And in this year of seventieth anniversaries of the end of World War II it is
important not to forget that in Australia’s battle for survival against Japan
our longest ally was China itself.  
  
China had been invaded by Japan in 1937 and fought alone until the attack on
Pearl Harbour in 1941.  
  
Japan had 680,000 troops in China at the time it launched its Pacific
offensive - four times the number it deployed to sweep through South East Asia
until they were stopped in the jungles of New Guinea and in the Coral Sea.  
  
Had China’s leaders, Chiang Kai Shek of the Nationalists and Mao Ze Dong of
the Communist Party, chosen to reach an armistice with the Japanese, as Wang
Jingwei chose to do, Japan would have been able to redeploy its armies in
China in our direction.[1]  
  
Without China’s endurance and courage in the face of Japan our war history may
have ended very differently indeed.  
  
It is vitally important for Australians, and Chinese, not to forget that in an
epic struggle for the survival of our own nations, our own sovereignty, we
were allies. It is important for Americans and Chinese to remember that too.  
  
There is a tendency to see the sweep of Chinese Australian history solely
through the prism of the cold war and then the opening up of China and the
economic development that followed.  
  
This is not the occasion for a history lecture, but we should never forget
that the history of our two nations is long, rich and complex. We could not
imagine modern Australia without China’s contribution to our people, our
culture, our prosperity.  
  
And, perhaps above all, in our darkest hour, when our foes were literally on
our doorstep, when our cities were under direct military attack - then, at
that tipping point in our history, China was our staunch, indefatigable ally.  
  
When I addressed this forum last year we had a 20-strong negotiating team in
Beijing for the 21st formal round of negotiations on the China-Australia Free
Trade Agreement (ChAFTA). That agreement was signed on 17 June 2015 in
Canberra by Australia’s Minister for Trade and Investment Andrew Robb, and the
Chinese Commerce Minister, Gao Hucheng.  
  
Of course, before ChAFTA’s entry into force, both Australia and China must
complete their domestic treaty-making processes.[2] However, we expect that
the ChAFTA will be in force by the end of this year.  
  
The ChAFTA lays a historic foundation for the next phase of Australia’s
economic relationship with China. Most significantly, the unprecedented market
access China has offered to Australia under ChAFTA puts our firms at a
significant competitive advantage.  
  
This year, services contributed around 80 per cent to Australia’s economic
output and around 20 per cent to Australia’s export performance.[3]  
  
China is already the largest single market for Australia’s service exports. To
date, this has been dominated by education travel and tourism. In 2014,
education travel and tourism exports to China constituted over 60 per cent of
Australia’s total services export. China is our largest source of
international students (about 29% of the total), and is our largest source of
tourism expenditure (18% of the total). Australia’s export of other services
to China has been less impressive to date, however ChAFTA lays the foundation
for much faster export growth across many services.  
  
This, coupled with China’s appetite for quality Australian products, was on
display when I joined Mr Richard Liu, the Founder and CEO of JD.com, China’s
second biggest retailer, for the Australian launch of JD Worldwide.
Opportunities such a these mean that more Australian companies can now sell
their products directly into the home’s of Chinese consumers.  
  
Chinese consumers have not just burst into the middle class, they have
embraced online retail more than just about any other country.  
  
Online retail accounted for around 10 per cent of overall sales at the end of
2014, with spending at almost half a trillion dollars during the year. This
means that the Chinese online retail market is now larger than that of the
U.S.[4] It is forecast to rise to 13-14 per cent by the end of the year. By
contrast, online retail accounts for around 7 per cent of sales in Australia
and around the same portion of sales in the United States[5].  
  
Never before has it been so easy for Australian businesses of all sizes,
across just about every industry, to reach new and expanding markets in China.  
  
An area of growing success is architecture and urban planning. Australian
firms have capitalised on China’s rapid urbanisation, with over 80 Australian
architectural studios currently active in China. A further 220 Australian
firms have won work in China in recent years, with 1000 Australian architects
employed across residential, commercial, tourism and leisure and sporting
facility projects[6].  
  
A notable example is the Brisbane firm Cox Rayner Architects, which two years
ago won an international competition to design China’s $290 million National
Maritime Museum, beating a field of 80 of the world's leading design firms[7].
The museum will be located in Tianjin, to the east of Beijing, with
construction now underway.  
  
As part of the the China-Australia Free Trade Agreement, Australian
architectural and engineering firms will be allowed to obtain broader business
licenses to carry out work on construction projects in China[8].  
  
Innovation and the importance of openness  
  
Right now we are seeing a lamentable failure of leadership on the part of the
Labor Party which is supporting the union campaign critical of elements of the
China Free Trade Agreement.  
  
Now it’s important to have these debates in a society such as Australia’s. Few
ideas are so brittle that they cannot be knocked into better shape from the
crucible of political debate  
  
And in so far as these debates revolve around bringing temporary labour into
the country to plug skills shortages, we are balancing competing demands. On
the one hand, there needs to be appropriate incentives to train and educate
the local workforce who, after all, will be around long after a boom in
construction is over. A good example of this was the announcement by NBN Co
earlier this week to train an additional 4500 telecom technicians to speed the
project’s completion. On the other hand, skills shortages can massively
increase costs, create uncertainty and impede future investment in major
projects.  
  
So a flexible approach means that Australian workers will have a greater level
of certainty than their global counterparts as the price of iron ore
fluctuates. If the cost of iron ore does indeed fall below US$40/tonne[9], the
vast majority of resource that is still economic to export to China will
mostly be sourced from Australia[10].  
  
  
  
So arrangements to plug temporary shortages benefit foreign investors, benefit
Australians by boosting our national income and benefit workers by ensuring
project costs are managed and there is ongoing work.  
  
Now these ideas haven’t been plucked from thin air. Ironically, they were
first implemented by Labor after a 2010 review[11] recommended that a new
scheme be put in place for big resource projects to streamline the 457
process[12]. When in Government, Labor resisted the opposition of the unions
to grant the first in-principle approval of the new agreements to the Roy Hill
mine in Western Australia in 2012[13]. The main change to the ‘Investment
Facilitation Agreements’ which accompany the ChAFTA[14] is that they lower the
investment threshold for relevant projects from $2 billion to $150
million[15].  
  
Labor introduced the new scheme in 2012. Since mid-2013, responding to the
wind down in construction, the number of 457 workers in Australia has
decreased[16], while the number of 457 visa holders from China account for
only 6 per cent of the total[17].  
  
And yet that hasn’t stopped some outrage outbursts of economic chauvinism from
the Labor-side of politics. Some of the more egregious examples include:  
  
Subsequently, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade have put out a fact
sheet dispelling myths and confirming that[22]:  
  
Now as I have said, I always welcome debate but I am very concerned that this
particular debate is on the verge of becoming feral or as Trade Minister
Andrew Robb said yesterday racist..  
  
While the unions will advocate for what they believe to be in their members’
interests - and the fact is that the vast bulk of 457 visa holders choose not
to be union members[23] - the Labor Party is supposed to be a party of
Government, and that brings with it the responsibility to stand up for the
national interest.  
  
This is a litmus test for Labor’s current leadership. It is instructive that
in Government, Labor resisted a union campaign against the original scheme and
a host of Labor elders from Martin Ferguson, Simon Crean[24], Peter Beattie,
John Brumby[25] and Bob Carr[26] have welcomed the agreements, as well as a
raft of business leaders.  
  
While Labor and the unions claim that there may be some benefits in delaying
the agreement, or seeking to revisit provisions relating to the labour market
in a few years, there are undoubtedly huge costs too. The National Farmers
Federation have estimated that if an agreement is not put into force by the
end of this year, it could cost the sector $300 million, mainly through having
to pay additional tariffs[27]. And Australian industries will continue to
suffer as major competitors, such as New Zealand, continue to enjoy
preferential treatment after having already signed agreements[28].  
  
So this campaign is not, by any measure, without cost to Australian business
and workers.  
  
Finally there is the psychological impact on Australia’s politics. Our
relationship with China is well understood as being our most important
economic partnership[29]. But Australia has a long history of ambivalence to
foreign investment even though we are a country that is resource rich but
capital poor[30].  
  
All reform necessarily involves winners and losers - but in the ChAFTA context
the winners overwhelmingly outnumber the losers.  
  
China will be, perhaps already is, the world’s single largest market. Not just
for iron and coal - but for everything. We already have few barriers to
foreign trade and investment, so a greater opening up of China has to be a
very big net gain for us and the limits of the win will be set only by the
extent to which the imagination and energy of Australian businesses enable
them to take advantage of it.  
  
The astonishing pace of China’s economic transformation is well known to you
all and I will not rehearse it other than to draw breath and reflect once more
that never before in human history have so many people hauled themselves out
of poverty so quickly.  
  
Forty years ago China was closed to the world, and Deng Xiao Ping in his
southern tour invoked the memory of 15th century Admiral Zheng He who led
great fleets across the Indian Ocean to open up new traces. China then was
strong, he said, but when later emperors closed China to foreign trade it
became weak beginning a decline that ended with 150 years of humiliating
invasion, colonialism and exploitation.  
  
Mao recognised the Chinese people had to stand up, and they did. Deng, and his
successors, have recognised that that is not enough. To be stronger still,
China had not just to stand up but to reach out. And so it has.  
  
China and Australia’s need for rebalancing  
  
Once asked why he robbed banks, John Dillinger replied “Because that’s where
the money is.” And the focus on money, and large amounts of it, is not limited
to bank robbers.  
  
There has been a natural tendency to view the economic relationship between
China and Australia exclusively through our major exports of iron ore, coal
and now increasingly LNG[31].  
  
  
  
But the economic relationship is now and will become vastly broader than this.
The ChAFTA will accelerate that broadening and deepening.  
  
There are real headwinds for several of our traditional exports.  
  
Let me make some specific observations about coal which has been in the news
today. China’s imports of coal declined by 37.5% year on year in the first six
months of this year. There are a number of factors which are not propitious
for thermal coal exports to China.  
  
First, China is working hard to reduce its energy intensity and increase the
share of renewables and nuclear power in its energy mix[32].  
  
Second, the phasing out of inefficient, costly state run heavy industry
plants, especially steel-making, is reducing demand.  
  
Third, China is the largest coal producer (and consumer) in the world. It made
massive investments (RMB 1.69 trillion) since 2011 in increasing production.
This has proved to be an overinvestment and 2015 production levels are only
160 mt higher than in 2011 indicating a considerable decline in capacity
utilisation. That is why many analysts predict that China will become, once
again, a net exporter of coal to avoid massive lay-offs in the coal
industry[33].  
  
Fourth, China is building a massive network of ultra high voltage transmission
lines to link coal and hydro energy resources in the north west and south west
of China with the industrial centres of the coast. This will reduce demand for
coal imports to the coastal cities and of course have the added, and very
considerable, advantage of reducing pollution and smog in the big cities near
the coast including Beijing and Shanghai.[34]  
  
As far as iron ore and metallurgical coal are concerned, they are the makings
of steel, and China like any other developing country is an intensive user of
steel as it builds its urban infrastructure and then over time that steel
intensity declines especially if, as in China, population growth stabilises or
even retreats. China's urban population accounted for 16% of the total in 1960
and is now close to 60%.  
  
China’s high growth rate over many years now has been driven by policies which
prioritise and incentivise investment not least by a policy of financial
repression which has kept money far too cheap, especially for state owned or
connected, enterprises.  
  
The consequent over investment, mal-investment and unsustainable levels of
debt were inevitable.  
  
The rebalancing of the Chinese economy, which has been the goal of the
national government for many years now, is starting to bear fruit. Consumption
which a few years ago was about a third of GDP is now rising towards 50%. The
challenge for Chinese leaders is to effect the rebalancing without creating
unacceptable levels of economic hardship and unemployment.  
  
The Government’s instincts are, predictably, interventionist, and often
counter productive, as we saw with the recent forays into the stock market.
The object surely must be to let the market work especially in financial
markets so that capital is appropriately priced for risk and consumers have a
fair return on their savings instead of subsidising often misguided real
estate and other investment.[35] [36].  
  
Next March, the Chinese leadership will release its 13th five-year plan. The
clues as to what it will contain can be found in what has been realised to
date in the current plan, much of which has already been achieved.  
  
It contained lower growth targets from the stellar double-digit figures that
had been achieved in the two decades to 2011; but you could say that it
focussed heavily on the quality of economic growth, rather than just the
quantity. As Xi Jinping argued earlier this year: “When looking at China's
economy, one should not focus on growth rate only.”[37]  
  
“As the economy continues to grow in size,” President Xi argued, “around 7 per
cent growth would be quite impressive, and the momentum it generates would be
larger than growth at double digits in previous years.”  
  
Chiefly, the five year plan contained targets for an increase in the service
sector’s share of output; an increase in scientific innovation; an increase of
the welfare state, with a particular focus on providing adequate health care;
and big improvements in eight key environmental benchmarks, such as the use of
renewable energy and reduction in CO2 targets as a percentage of GDP  
  
All of this has profound consequences for Australia. Australia’s exports in
iron ore to China in 2014 accounted for $50 billion -- that’s more than 56 per
cent of our exports to China or around 3.2 per cent of our GDP[38]. In others
words, the more than halving of iron ore prices since 2011 has delivered a big
hit to our national income.  
  
In the 1990s, labour productivity contributed 2 percentage points to our
national income growth; and the terms of trade virtually nothing. In the
2000s, labour productivity halved in terms of its contribution to income
growth and the terms of trade accounted for more than a percentage point each
year[39].  
  
  
  
So clearly Australia’s next phase of growth cannot be reliant on terms of
trade or external trade partners demanding more and more of our national
resources.  
  
We will need a renewed focus on domestic policy settings to ensure we are
doing everything to make our exporters more competitive, our products more
innovative, our workers more productive.  
  
If we want to remain a prosperous, high wage, generous social welfare safety
net, first world economy then, in this rapidly converging global economy, we
have be more efficient, more imaginative, more innovative, more
technologically sophisticated. We cannot rely on a few large commodities to
grow our national income. Our greatest natural assets are not below the ground
but walking around on top of it and every sinew of national policy must be
dedicated to the vision of ensuring that our human capital becomes the
smartest and nimblest to take advantage of the massively expanded global
market.  
  
We are in the most exciting, creative, disruptive time of human history. China
is a big part of it - perhaps the biggest single part of it - and we need to
be as mindful as the Chinese are of the need to rebalance our economy. And in
this, the shift of the Chinese leadership to focus on the ‘qualitative’
features of its economy, presents a huge opportunity for Australian
businesses.  
  
Chinese Innovation  
  
It is an easy trap to characterise Chinese business as lacking innovation or
creativity. Too frequently we hear reference to China’s ‘copycat’
manufacturers, test-focused education system or the government’s failure to
protect intellectual property rights. I believe such attitudes are outdated
and misplaced and ignore China’s long history of innovation as well as the
surge of R&amp;D; and entrepreneurship currently underway China.  
  
Until the early 19th century, China’s economy was the world’s largest, most
open advanced, and innovative.[40]  
  
Long before the renaissance brought the printing press and the astrolabe to
the West, the Song dynasty provided significant technological advances
including the invention of printing, paper money, porcelain, tea, restaurants,
gunpowder, and the compass.  
  
Over the past 30 years, much of China’s economic growth has come from being an
“innovation sponge”. China attempted to catch up with advanced economies by
absorbing and adapting technology, best practices, and knowledge from
overseas.[41]  
  
In his January 2015 speech at Davos, Premier Li Keqiang emphasised that China
is adopting “twin engines”. Firstly, mass entrepreneurship and innovation and
secondly increasing the supply of public goods and services in China.  
  
Li Keqiang quoted the proverb: “When the wind of change blows, some build
walls while others build windmills.”[42]  
  
In a more elegant way, he was making this point. In age of rapid technological
change , disruption and volatility we must learn to make volatility our
friend, not our foe. We must be agile to exploit the opportunities, rather
than waiting behind the walls frightened of the new challenges.  
  
As our traditional industries suffered during the 1980s and 1990s, Australia
had the goal and clear policies of increasing spending on R&amp;D; to improve
productivity. In its recent five year plan, China set the goal of increasing
expenditure on R&amp;D; from 1.75 per cent of GDP in 2010 to 2.2 per cent. It
has already hit that mark and - although the statistics for Australia lag by a
few years - it would appear China has now caught up to Australia in terms of
the portion of its economy spent on R&amp;D.;  
  
  
  
China now accounts for 50 per cent more patent applications per year than the
United States[43].  
  
Some of China’s most thriving companies are in sectors requiring advanced
manufacturing and customer service, such as online retail. Chinese companies
account for 39 percent  
  
of global revenue for trade in appliances, 15 per cent of global revenue for
trade of Internet software and 10 per cent of global revenue for
smartphones[44]. According to a study by McKinsey, China now ranks second in
the world in its share of global trade that relies on knowledge inputs.[45]  
  
Xiaomi, the Chinese smartphone producer, exemplifies China’s attitude to
innovation and entrepreneurship. Four years ago Xiaomi launched its first
mobile phone. Today it is the world's fourth largest smartphone company and
the second most valuable private startup. (Last week it was the most valuable
but has since been overtaken by Uber).  
  
And Xiaomi shows the extent to which the spirit of innovation is being crowd-
sourced from tens of millions of consumers around China. Every week Xiaomi
releases a new version of its operating software, built with online customer
input from a million of its users.  
  
Australia’s Advantages  
  
As China moves up the value chain of the world economy, there will be much
greater opportunities for Australia.  
  
China has a metaphor for the diaspora of students who have studied abroad, who
return home to contribute to the country’s economic growth - Haigui, or sea
turtles who take long migrations[46]. One of Australia’s most lucrative
exports to China has been our education sector. As at June 2015, there were
124,000 Chinese on student visas in Australia - more than a quarter of the
total[47].  
  
Australia needs to do everything it can to build up the reputations of our
universities and higher education sector in general to ensure we continue to
be competitive. Crucially, a recent survey of Chinese business leaders found
that while the Australian education system lags behind the U.S. in preparing
students for the 21st Century world of work, we are ahead of both the U.K. and
U.S. in terms of cost of living, lifestyle for students and providing an
environment that is safe and most secure from crime[48].  
  
Elsewhere, a range of Australian service industries stand to benefit from the
shift of the Chinese economy towards consumption and  
  
In 2013, the new Chinese leadership under Xi Jinping launched their new
60-point plan for economic growth to 2020, which included a list of sectors in
the service industry that would be opened for international competition,
including finance, education, culture, healthcare and other service
sectors[49].  
  
Earlier this year, the Australia-China Business Council released the results
of a survey which found that the most optimistic sectors for the two year
business outlook are mostly in the services sector – and the health sector in
particular.  
  
Expenditure on health care in China is forecast to go from US$295 billion in
2010 to US$1.02 trillion in 2018[50].  
  
Australia is well placed to capitalise on this new wave of innovation and
disruption emerging from China. However, we all have a role fostering a
culture of innovation which must be driven by the private sector, educational
institutions and government. In the innovation space, government must lead the
way with clear and detailed education, innovation and technology policies that
are funded adequately. Industry, too, must embrace disruptive change and most
importantly continue to enhance its understanding and relationship with China
and its economy.  
  
Conclusion  
  
For too many, that if ChAFTA meansChinese businesses and workers benefit, then
Australians must lose.  
  
This is a particular affliction for Australia, I think, because we are so
small, we fear that we will are unable to negotiate equitable agreements and
we will be left behind as the global economy grows.  
  
But it was true of China that it has always been most prosperous, most
innovative and most powerful when it has been open to the world. And the same
is true of Australia, as our history post-reform has shown.  
  
As Chinese Xi Jinping noted at the recent Boao Forum in March:  
  
“Our friends in Europe say that a single tree cannot block the chilly wind.
And Chinese people say that when big rivers have water, the small ones are
filled; and when small rivers have water, the big ones are filled. All these
sayings speak to one same truth, that is, only through win-win cooperation can
we make big and sustainable achievements that are beneficial to all. The old
mindset of zero-sum game should give way to a new approach of win-win and all-
win cooperation.”[51]  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
ENDS  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
[1] See Rana Mitter “Forgotten Ally – China’s World War II 1937-1945” 2013  
  
[2] Next steps in Australia’s processes: The Joint Standing Committee on
Treaties (JSCOT) is conducting a public inquiry into ChAFTA and will table its
report in Parliament, expected in the week beginning 19 October 2015.
Implementation of ChAFTA will require changes to: the Customs Act 1901; the
Customs Tariff Act 1995 and associated regulations; the Foreign Acquisitions
and Takeovers Regulations 1989; and Life Insurance Regulations 1995. in
addition, a determination will be required under the Migration Act 1958. More
information about this inquiry, including hearing dates and guidelines for
public submissions, is available at the Committee’s website. After the JSCOT
report is tabled, Parliament will consider amendments to relevant legislation,
and relevant regulations would also be amended in due course.  
  
[3] Australian Trade Commission, ‘Why Australia: Benchmark Report 2015’
(2015).  
  
[4] FT Confidential Research, (2015), “Online Retail - Crucial Battlegrounds”.
9 Apr 15. The Chinese online retail market accounted for US$484 billion in
2014, compared to $307 billion in the U.S.  
  
[5] NAD, (2015), “NAB Online Retail Sales Index”, available online at:
http://business.nab.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/NAB-Online-Retail-Sales-
Index-Jun-15.pdf. U.S figures sourced from Census, (2015), “Quarterly
e-Commerce Retail Sales”, available online at:
https://www.census.gov/retail/mrts/www/data/pdf/ec_current.pdf  
  
[6] Austrade, “Infrastructure and construction to China”. Last updated 19 Jan
15.  
  
[7] Wheeldon, D., “Cox Rayner Architects design National Maritime Museum of
China: international competition win”. 12 Apr 13.  
  
[8] ANZ, (2015), “The ChAFTA and its implications for Australian Businesses”,
https://bluenotes.anz.com/media/320138/CHAFTA_2.pdf, p.15  
  
[9] Citi investment bank has forecast an iron ore price of US$42 a tonne in
the third quarter of 2015 and $38 in the fourth quarter. See Thomson, J.,
(2015), “Lower Iron Ore Prices a Safe Bet”, available at:
http://www.afr.com/business/mining/iron-ore/lower-iron-ore-prices-a-safe-
bet-20150709-gi9746  
  
[10] RBA, (2015), “The Effects of Changes in Iron Ore Prices”, available
online at: http://www.rba.gov.au/publications/smp/boxes/2015/feb/a.pdf  
  
[11] DEEWR, (2010), “Resourcing the Future”, available online here, pp.62-64.  
  
[12] Known as the Enterprise Migration Agreements. Around 4,000 457 visas were
granted to mining/petroleum engineers and geoscientists in the five years to
March 2010. However, Labour Agreements between employers and the Government
took on average between six to nine months to process, with some taking more
than 12 months.  
  
[13] See for instance, Coorey, P., (2012), “Labor Sets Up Team to Look After
Foreign Worker Deals”, available at http://www.smh.com.au/federal-
politics/political-news/labor-sets-up-team-to-look-after-foreign-worker-
deals-20120529-1zhfm.html  
  
[14] https://dfat.gov.au/trade/agreements/chafta/official-
documents/Documents/chafta-mou-on-an-investment-facilitation-arrangement.pdf  
  
[15] See for instance, Parliamentary Library, (2015), “Trade Agreements and
Immigration Policy: Commitments in the ChAFTA”, available online at:
http://www.aph.gov.au/About_Parliament/Parliamentary_Departments/Parliamentary_Library/FlagPost/2015/February/ChAFTA-
IFAs  
  
[16] As at 30 June, 2013, there were 107,970 457 visa holders in Australia,
(source: DIBP, 2013, “Subclass 457 State/Territory Summary Report
http://www.border.gov.au/ReportsandPublications/Documents/statistics/457-stats-
state-territory-june13.pdf) while as at March 31, 2015, there were 106,750 457
visa holders in Australia (Source: DIBP, 2015,
http://www.border.gov.au/ReportsandPublications/Documents/statistics/457-quarterly-
report-2015-03-31.pdf)  
  
[17] There were 6,700 Chinese 457 visa holders as at March 31, 2015, out of
106,750 total. Source: DIBP, 2015,
http://www.border.gov.au/ReportsandPublications/Documents/statistics/457-quarterly-
report-2015-03-31.pdf, p.17  
  
[18] Quoted in abc, (2015), “Trade Minister Reassures Australian Workers China
FTA Won’t Threaten Australian Jobs”, available online at:
http://www.abc.net.au/am/content/2015/s4269434.htm  
  
[19] CFMEU national secretary Michael O’Connor quoted in Hannan, E., (2015),
“Labor to Seek to Rewrite China FTA if ALP Wins Election”, available at
http://www.afr.com/news/economy/trade/labor-to-seek-to-rewrite-china-fta-if-
alp-wins-election-20150724-gijunt, published July 24.  
  
[20] Vogler, S., (2015), “FTA Removes China from Skills Criteria for 457
Visa”, available at: http://www.couriermail.com.au/news/queensland/fta-
removes-china-from-skills-criteria-for-457-visas/story-fntuy59x-1227460104861  
  
[21] ABC, (2015), available online at:
http://mpegmedia.abc.net.au/rn/podcast/2015/06/bst_20150618_0751.mp3  
  
[22] DFAT, (2015), available online at:
http://dfat.gov.au/trade/agreements/chafta/fact-sheets/Pages/chafta-myths-
versus-realities.aspx  
  
[23] According to one survey, only 7 per cent of 457 visa holders are union
members. Source: Migration Council, (2015), “More Than Temporary: Australia’s
457 Visa Program”, available online at:
http://www.migrationcouncil.org.au/assets/files/8168a3189.pdf, p.4  
  
[24] See Australian Livestock Association, (2015), available online here:
http://auslivestockexport.com/livestock-exporters-welcome-australia-china-
free-trade-agreement/  
  
[25] Brumby, J., (2015), “Former Labor premier John Brumby calls on Parliament
not to block the China FTA”, available at:
http://www.afr.com/opinion/columnists/former-labor-premier-john-brumby-calls-
on-parliament-not-to-block-the-china-fta-20150720-gigb4w  
  
[26] See for instance, Hepworth, A., (2015), “‘Xenophobic’ attacks on China
free-trade deal risk relations”
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/economics/xenophobic-attacks-on-
china-free-trade-deal-risk-relations/story-e6frg926-1227464021004  
  
[27] National Farmers Federation, (2015), “China FTA - Promises Made, Promises
Kept”, available online at: http://www.nff.org.au/read/5017/china-fta-
promises-made-promises-kept.html  
  
[28] Since the New Zealand - China Free Trade Agreement went into force in
2008, dairy exports from NZ to China have increased by 864 per cent, while
Australian dairy exports increased only by 152 per cent.  
  
[29] Lowy Institute, (2015), “The Lowy Institute Poll, 2015”, available at:
http://www.lowyinstitute.org/files/final_2015_lowy_institute_poll.pdf, p.3.
More than half of respondents identified China as our most important economic
relationship.  
  
[30] As the 2014 Lowy Poll found, 56 per cent of respondents said they felt
that Australia allows too much investment from China. Lowy, (2014), “The Lowy
Institute Poll, 2014”, available online at:
http://www.lowyinstitute.org/files/2014_lowy_institute_poll.pdf, at p.3  
  
[31] DFAT, (2015), “Australia’s Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) exports, 2003-04
to 2013-14 and beyond”, available online at: http://dfat.gov.au/about-
us/publications/Documents/australias-lng-exports-2003-04-to-2013-14.pdf  
  
[32] According to a statement submitted to the U.N. as part of its Intended
Nationally Determined Contibution to reduce carbon emissions, China stated it
will reduce carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product by
60-65 per cent from 2005 levels and increase the share of non-fossil fuels in
its primary energy consumption to 20 per cent by 2030 (Source: UNFCCC, 2015,
“INDC, China”, available at:
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/China/1/China's%20INDC%20-%20on%2030%20June%202015.pdf)  
  
[33] See for example Deutsche Bank research paper 3 August 2015 “Darker Days
Ahead for China’s coal industry?”  
  
[34] See Deutsche Bank research paper 23 March 2015 “How Will China UHV Boom
affect materials demand?”  
  
[35] For a good discussion of this see Pettis, M., (2014), Avoiding the Fall:
China’s Economic Rebalancing, pp.12-20.  
  
[36] The vast majority of infrastructure spending since 1998 in China has been
funded by local Government spending, via Local Government Funding Vehicles
(LGFVs), using public land as collateral (source: Chen, Z., 2015, “China’s
Dangerous Debt”, in Foreign Affairs, Vol 94, No 3, p.15). Local Government
debt has been estimated at between US$5 to $7 trillion. These vehicles have
been adversely affected by a 30 per cent drop in land value and volumes on the
market in 2015, with signs that local governments have created shell companies
to buy land and artificially increase land prices. Since 1998, the proportion
of infrastructure spending financed by Local Governments has increased from 77
per cent of total infrastructure spending to 86 per cent (source: FT
Confidential, 2015, “China’s Infrastructure Financing Puzzle”, 15 Jan 15.
Extra-budgetary funds for local Governments - that is, funding that comes from
‘land transfer fees’ as compared to normal tax revenues - has increased from
45 per cent of infrastructure funding to 58 per cent of infrastructure funding
as at 2013.  
  
[37] Xi Jinping, (2015), “Address to the Boao Forum”, available online at
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-03/29/c_134106145.htm  
  
[38] DFAT, (2015), “China Fact Sheet”, available online at:
http://dfat.gov.au/trade/resources/Documents/chin.pdf  
  
[39] Gruen, D., (2012). “The Importance of Productivity”, available online
HERE  
  
[40] John M. Hobson, The Eastern Origins of Western CIvilisation (Cambridge
University Press, 2004).  
  
[41] McKinsey Global Institute, (2015), Global growth: Can productivity save
the day in an aging world? . Indeed of the 1.25 million patents granted in
China last year only around a fifth were awarded in the highest category for
‘invention’ as opposed to the ‘utility model’ and ‘design’ categories. Source:
Waldmier, P., (2015) “China Fails to Live Up to its History as a Great Nation
in Innovation”, in the Financial Times, available online at:
http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/406b5f62-b710-11e2-a249-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3hvoka46M  
  
[42] Rosana She & Noric Dilanchian, ;China’s transition into a new innovation
powerhouse’ (4 March 2015),
http://www.businessspectator.com.au/article/2015/3/4/china/chinas-transition-
new-innovation-powerhouse  
  
[43] Angang, H., (2015), “Embracing China’s New Normal”, in Foreign Affairs,
Vol 94, No 3, p.9  
  
[44] McKinsey Global Institute, (2015), ‘The China Effect on Global
Innovation’, p.9  
  
45 McKinsey, (2015), “Global flows in a digital age: How trade, finance,
people, and data connect the world economy”, p.10
http://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/dotcom/Insights/Globalization/Global%20flows%20in%20a%20digital%20age/MGI_Global_flows_in_a_digial_age_Full_report.ashx  
  
46 Chu, K., (2015), “Chinese Firms Lure Executives From Western Companies”,
available online at:http://www.wsj.com/articles/chinese-firms-lure-native-
executives-home-1409671081  
  
47 DET, (2015), “International Student Data”, available online here:
https://internationaleducation.gov.au/research/International-Student-
Data/Pages/InternationalStudentData2015.aspx#Pivot_Table  
  
48 Zogby Research, (2015), “A Promising Partner: How Chinese Elites View
Australia”, available online at:
http://www.uts.edu.au/sites/default/files/How%20Chinese%20Elites%20View%20Australia%20-%20Australia-
China%20Relations%20Institute%20-%20Zogby%20Research%20Services.pdf  
  
49 See
http://www.china.org.cn/china/third_plenary_session/2014-01/16/content_31212602_7.htm  
  
50 ANZ, (2015), “The ChAFTA and its implications for Australian
Businesses”,https://bluenotes.anz.com/media/320138/CHAFTA_2.pdf  
  
51 Xi Jinping, (2015), “Address to the Boao Forum”, available online at
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-03/29/c_134106145.htmMr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (13:33): Don Randall was a
life enhancer. He was one of the great characters, one of the great indelible
personalities that all of us encounter far too few of in our lives. He made
everyone who met him more invigorated and more exhilarated. He was an
exciting, electric personality.  
  
  
  
He was also a remarkable grassroots politician. I do not say that in a
technical way. His motto was, of course, 'You talk; I listen.' But he really
practised that. Every politician says, 'You talk; I listen,' but Don Randall
really meant it. On the various community forums I attended with him over the
years in Mandurah, Champion Lakes and Perth, I could see that he absorbed the
wisdom of his community. He absorbed the needs of his community. His brain was
always thinking about how to find a solution.  
  
This was particularly so in the communications area where the melancholy fact
of life was that the construction of the National Broadband Network in Western
Australia collapsed under the previous government when the contractor
essentially imploded and virtually nothing was done. It was hugely
disappointing. It took some time to get it cranked up again. Don was very
alert to the needs of his community in that regard.  
  
He took me out again and again—both before we were elected and afterwards—to
make sure that I understood the granular requirements of his community. He
left me in no doubt as to the urgency of the matter.  
  
Needless to say, the construction of the National Broadband Network in the
electorate of Canning accelerated following the election of the Abbott
government. It was in very large part due to Don's advocacy. He set a great
example for all of us. Many of his colleagues have spoken today about some of
his more outrageous statements. He could sometimes be very colourful.  
  
But I think he set us all a very good example not simply in his focus on his
community, for which he was rewarded with continuing increasing electoral
success, but through his focus on his family. All of us talked to Don about
many things. I have listened to his passions and concerns and shared them: on
Cuba, for example.  
  
Even in foreign relations—and I address this to the foreign minister who is
here—he was way ahead of his time. As we have seen, Obama is restoring
diplomatic relations with Cuba; Don would have told him to do that years ago!
Don Randall had diplomatic relations with Cuba well ahead of the United
States. He was ahead of his time there.  
  
But there was nothing of which he spoke to me or to his colleagues with more
passion or more pride than his children. Tess and Elliott, you have lost a
father—and it is a terrible thing to lose a father in the prime of life. It is
a dreadful thing. We should all lose our fathers when they are very, very old
men; when they are old and they have had a great innings. He was taken from
you in the prime of his life.  
  
But you know, he was never, ever lacking in a focus, a pride, and a passion
for you. It is so easy in public life—and we all know this: it is a terrible
trap, this business—to get distracted with the events of the day, and the
momentous things that go on here, and the debates, and the media, and all of
that stuff.  
  
Don was always focused on his family and on his wife Julie—Julie, he loved you
so much, as you know, and he talked about you—but those two children of yours:
he was so very proud . And he will always be proud—wherever Don is, he will be
so proud of you. He was a great man. We will all miss him.  
  
He was absolutely authentic—in many respects: family, love of his community,
and service to his community but, above all, in being nothing other than
himself.  
  
There are not many more things that a good man can do in his allotted time;
and that is what Don did. We miss him deeply. We cannot plumb the depths of
your grief but all of us, in our own ways, know how you feel. And you know,
because you have heard today, that you have the love of all of this House in
your suffering. That love, I trust, will help you regain the strength that you
need to live as Don would want you to do.  
  
Farewell, Don Randall: a great Australian.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (16:16): When we lost Alby
Shultz we lost one of the most colourful, engaging and sometimes irascible
members of this House. He was, of course, the longest-serving member for the
federation seat of Hume. He was born in Melbourne on 29 May 1939. Alby, who
died recently at the age of 76, had been ill for a long time and had retired
from parliament at the 2013 election, following a diagnosis of liver cancer.  
  
He was a very passionate liberal, and as many of us have noted the Liberal
Party room, which is, as you know, Mr Deputy Speaker—rather, as a member of
the National Party the Deputy Speaker does not attend Liberal Party
meetings!—the Liberal Party meets at the beginning of each two-week sitting of
parliament for half an hour at nine o'clock on a Tuesday. The Liberal Party
meetings, of course, deal with matters of great interest to the Liberal Party
as distinct from the coalition.  
  
Since Alby has left us, there is not nearly so much to talk about. He was
quite able to fill up the whole half hour with his observations on matters
inter se—let us put it that way!—between the members of the coalition. Indeed,
when he was getting ready to retire from parliament he looked out for a
successor and, of course, he was delighted to find Angus Taylor, who is now
the member for Hume. As everyone knows, Alby had only two conditions—two
critical, absolutely essential conditions—one was that his successor had to be
somebody that had the capacity to be Prime Minister of Australia but, most
importantly, they could not be a member of the National Party under any
circumstances whatsoever!  
  
Alby was a very forthright member of the parliament and of the party room. Of
course, he was a member of the party room for many years. He came to this
parliament in 1998, having served in the New South Wales parliament for 10
years prior to that. I have many exhilarating memories of dealing with Alby
from when I was Leader of the Opposition—some of them more character-forming
than others. He had the great characteristic of being always thoroughly
himself.  
  
Of course, we have made the same observation about another much-loved member
of our party, Don Randall, who died recently too. Indeed, in a rather sombre
coincidence, Don died on the day of Alby's funeral. Alby leaves his wife,
Gloria, and his sons, Grant and Dean. Grant gave a really powerful and moving
eulogy for his father at Alby's funeral. Being a man, I will just speak about
men: it is always a very momentous time in a man's life when his father dies.  
  
Obviously, we all hope that our fathers live until they are very old—very old
indeed. Some of us are fortunate enough for that to happen; others are not.
Alby lived well past threescore years and 10, but 76 is not a very old age—at
least in the modern world. Grant spoke so movingly of his father. Every person
in that huge church in Cootamundra understood the grief of that family and the
significance of that watershed event that occurs to most people. Of course,
the vast majority of us, fortunately, have our fathers predecease us. Every
father wants to die long before their children; no-one wants to outlive their
children. Nonetheless, it was a very moving eulogy.  
  
Alby was a real worker. I remember, when I was young journalist working at the
Parliament of New South Wales, there were many members of that parliament on
both sides who were what the poet might have called 'horny-handed sons of
toil', and Alby definitely fell into that category. He started off working in
abattoirs, moved on to a management position with a meat-packing company and
then found his way into politics. He came from a working-class background,
very much so. Indeed, he said in his maiden speech that his grandmother on his
mother's side was a personal friend of John Curtin, and reflected that one of
his uncles had said that his grandfather would turn in his grave if he knew
Alby was a Liberal member of parliament.  
  
Alby seemed to think this was quite appropriate and confirmed that he expected
that his grandfather would be doing that! It is my submission to you, Mr
Deputy Speaker Scott, that he embodied some of the finest values of the
Liberal party. He had a very, very big heart. I do not want to suggest that
other parties do not have big hearts. But he had a very strong view that
people should work hard and get on with their lives with as little
interference from government as possible, and rise by their own efforts.  
  
He had a very sturdy, self-reliant philosophy and he lived those values. Alby
had many interests. One of them of course, being the representative of a rural
electorate, was telecommunications, and he complained about inadequate
telecommunications in his maiden speech. So it is good that in 2015, with the
Mobile Black Spot Program, we were able to announce 18 new or upgraded base
stations in that electorate, and 74 of the 139 black spots identified in Hume
were addressed in whole or in part. Alby would be very, very pleased by that
result. On my behalf and on behalf of Lucy, we extend our sympathies to Alby's
wife, Gloria; their sons, Dean and Grant, and their spouses; and their
grandchildren, whom Alby loved so much.Mr TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (09:02): I move:  
  
That this bill be now read a second time.  
  
Mr Speaker, as this is my first occasion of speaking in the House since your
elevation to the Speaker's chair, I convey my congratulations to you on your
elevation to the office of Speaker and note that you have already
distinguished yourself in this very important role.  
  
The Broadcasting Legislation Amendment (Primary Television Broadcasting
Service) Bill 2015 provides the national and commercial free-to-air
broadcasters with the flexibility to deliver programming on their primary
television services in either standard definition or high-definition formats.
Broadcasters' primary television services include ABC1, SBS ONE, 7, Prime7,
Nine, WIN, Ten and Southern Cross. These services are subject to particular
obligations regarding Australian content, captioning and antisiphoning.  
  
At present, free-to-air broadcasters are required to provide their primary
television service in standard definition. This is a relic of the analog era,
introduced at the start of the digital television switchover process to ensure
that viewers would have access to at least one digital channel per
broadcaster. At the time not all televisions and set-top boxes were capable of
receiving high-definition content.  
  
Importantly for Australians who watch television on satellite, this bill makes
minor technical amendments to ensure the transmission of primary services by
free-to-air satellite broadcasters such as VAST receive the same flexibility
to transmit in either standard or high definition.  
  
This government is committed to removing unnecessary and outdated regulations
that hamper industry from providing services that respond to audience
preferences.  
  
The government has implemented a range of initiatives to remove red tape
through its deregulation work program, which was initiated in the
Communications portfolio with the release of the Deregulation Roadmap in May
2014.  
  
This roadmap committed the government to undertake a review of the free-to-air
digital television regulatory framework to ensure it is fit-for-purpose for
the next wave of innovation in the media sector.  
  
The first stage of that review involved the identification of provisions that
were redundant or spent following the completion of Australia's switch to
digital-only television.  
  
The second stage began in January this year, when the Department of
Communications released a consultation paper seeking the views of the public
and the industry on future arrangements for digital television regulation.  
  
The proposal to allow broadcasters to provide their primary service in either
standard or high definition received strong very support from the public and
free-to-air broadcasters.  
  
High-definition television equipment is now virtually ubiquitous in Australian
homes. A Newspoll survey conducted in February 2014, after the completion of
the digital switch-over process, found that 96 per cent of all households had
a main television set or set-top box that was capable of receiving high-
definition content. It is expected that this figure has grown, with high-
definition capability standard in televisions and set-top boxes currently on
the market.  
  
With the completion of digital switch-over and the availability of a range of
new television services, many Australians now expect premium free-to-air
programming to be provided in high definition—especially events such as live
sports.  
  
The bill responds to these developments and amends the Broadcasting Services
Act 1992, giving TV networks the flexibility to broadcast the primary service
in either in either standard or high definition. It does not change any other
existing arrangements regarding the primary service such as captioning,
Australian content or anti-siphoning requirements.  
  
Australians enjoy a wide range of free-to-air television services,
particularly following the switch to digital television. Anti-siphoning rules
ensure that our most important and iconic sporting events are free for anyone
to watch, not just those who can afford a pay TV subscription. This is one of
the great things about living in Australia: it is available to everyone. We
have, in my submission, the best free-to-air television services in the world,
and it is important that the government does everything it can to ensure that
the broadcasters are able to be as flexible and innovative in the way they use
their spectrum so as to improve the quality of the service they are delivering
to the Australian people for free.  
  
The anti-siphoning scheme requires any listed events to be televised first on
a broadcaster's primary service. The bill will allow broadcasters to meet this
obligation while also having the option of providing events on the anti-
siphoning list in high definition.  
  
The bill is being introduced now to provide broadcasters with the flexibility
to broadcast upcoming events, such as this year's AFL and NRL grand finals, in
high definition, should they chose to do so.  
  
Mr Speaker, as you know as a distinguished Victorian, Australians,
particularly the citizens of your state, love their football. Just this week,
we have seen both the AFL and the NRL negotiate new rights deals with
broadcasters. For NRL fans, many of them in my state of New South Wales, the
four-year deal with Nine for 2018 is worth $185 million a year for four games
per week plus the State of Origin. The NRL still has pay TV, digital and
international rights to sell, and there are reports that NRL officials are
optimistic of achieving more than $2 billion in total over five years.  
  
For the AFL, the deal announced yesterday is the biggest sports rights deal in
Australia's history, at a reported figure of $2½ billion over six years. From
2017 until 2022, AFL fans will be able to watch live on the Seven Network
three matches per round in every state and territory, as well as the grand
final and Brownlow Medal. Fox Sports will broadcast every match of the round
live and Telstra will hold the rights for all hand-held mobile devices, the
AFL website and IPTV.  
  
Live sport is a huge part and a growing part of free-to-air television. As so
much more of the program video content is going over the top—that is to say,
it is being provided over streamed internet services like Presto, like
Netflix, like Stan—and as viewers want to be able to watch episode drama
programs, for example, at their convenience, the value of live events,
particularly live sport, is of greater and greater importance.  
  
There is no form of television programming where high-definition transmission
is more important than live sports. It does make a very big difference, as
honourable members would understand.  
  
While we have no doubt that in due course the networks will take advantage of
this change to be able to show live sports, particularly football in HD, the
government is not directing them to do that. Our view is that the restriction
on the primary channel that it had to be broadcast or transmitted in standard
definition is now clearly out of date. It is an anachronistic regulation. It
served its purpose. It was important in its time. The government's approach to
regulation is that we should look at every single regulation, whether it is in
communications or anywhere else, and ask ourselves: what is the policy
objective? If the policy objective is no longer necessary or no longer
appropriate then the regulation should go. If the policy objective is still
appropriate and relevant we have to ask ourselves: is there a more effective
or efficient way to deliver that objective by an improved form of regulation?
That is the approach we take right across the board, and the statutory rules
here that we are seeking to repeal are an absolutely classic case of the
deregulatory agenda of the Abbott government.  
  
We look forward to further transforming the future arrangements of digital
television regulation during our fourth regulation repeal day in November. We
have brought this bill forward so that it does provide an opportunity, if the
broadcasters wish, to show the grand finals in high definition on their
primary channels. We are committed to reducing the regulatory burden for all
businesses, including the very regulated businesses in my portfolio of
communications. The bill will provide free-to-air broadcasters with greater
flexibility to innovate and to evolve, to incorporate new technologies,
ensuring that they continue to remain relevant in a rapidly changing media
environment. I commend the built the House.  
  
Debate adjourned.Thank you very much Rodney and Brendan, so many distinguished friends,
parliamentary colleagues.  
  
Let me deal with the greatest role of war correspondents, indeed of all
journalists, and that is to stand up to the powerful – to hold up the truth to
power. It is often said that in war the first casualty is the truth and it is
the war correspondents that have to tell the truth, often in the face of
considerable criticism.  
  
It takes courage for any journalist, for any correspondent, to stand up to big
businesses, to vested interests, to governments and never more so in a time of
war, when all of the arguments of patriotism can be levelled, inveighed
against a journalist who seeks to tell the truth.  
  
And so it is wonderfully fitting that we, a great democracy, one of the
world’s greatest democracies, are dedicating this memorial on the centenary of
Keith Murdoch’s letter to Andrew Fisher. What Keith Murdoch did – an
Australian journalist and war correspondent – what he did was tell the truth.
He told the truth in the nation’s interest. He told uncomfortable truths
because, my friends, our democracy depends not just on the politicians, not
just on the judges, it depends on the armed services defending our freedoms
but it depends vitally on a free press; on a free and courageous press; on
free and courageous correspondents who are not cowed by governments and by big
vested interests.  
  
Now we have had a very long tradition of courageous journalists covering our
nation’s wars. They have, as Brendan said, written the first draft of history.
Arguably, the first war correspondent, arguably the world’s first historian,
was of course Thucydides who wrote and who was a participant in the
Peloponnesian War. Although, I’d say to the Admirals and the Generals, he was
also a General so he was multi-tasking – perhaps that wouldn’t be allowed,
wouldn’t be acceptable nowadays.  
  
Can I say that it is wonderful that the Charles Bean Foundation has sponsored
this because Charles Bean, like Keith Murdoch, broke the mould of the war
correspondent that, in effect, becomes part of the military’s, or the
Government’s, publicity machine. And as those of you who have read Ross
Coulthart’s excellent book would know very well, some of his dispatches were
rejected because they were not jingoistic enough, they strayed too close to
the facts, to telling the full horror of what was going on.  
  
So this is a memorial about courage in the face of death, courage in the face
of physical threat but it is also a memorial to the courage of men and women
who do what is so essential in our democracy – hold up the truth to power and
at a time when the power is more powerful than it ever can be. That is when
Governments are at their most powerful and the pressure they can exert on a
free press is the greatest. So we are talking today about a tradition of
courage, a tradition that is absolutely fundamental to our democracy.  
  
Now we remember our war correspondents who were killed doing their work.
Damien Parer, who died with a camera in his hand, like Bruce Piggott, John
Cantwell and Michael Birch who were killed in Vietnam. Neil Davis, who filmed
his own death while covering a coup in Bangkok and Paul Moran from the ABC who
died in Iraq. And, of course as Brendan noted, Shirley Shackleton is here, the
widow of Greg who, together with his four colleagues, television reporters and
camera men, who were killed in Balibo forty years ago.  
  
The trauma of covering war is considerable. We should not forget that and I
would just record, or repeat, what the Australian journalist Michael Ware
wrote about returning to what was supposed to be a normal life after covering
the war in Iraq and I’m quoting from his work, he said: “I felt chewed and
spat out by my past employers. In the field it was only a colleague, a mate
and a true brother-in-arms with me everywhere who helped me at all and then in
New York two other friends, both cameramen, discreetly found the doctor I went
on to see, in secret, for almost two years. His bills came out of my pocket,
no recompense from those who paid me for my wars, from them came only rebuke
and lectures.”  
  
Bean, of course, was originally offered the role of Chief Censor and he
rejected that and instead became our chief journalist, he wrote the first
draft of history and then – well the final draft is never written, but he
wrote a very advanced draft as well. I mentioned Thucydides earlier, the
Athenian General and writer who wrote his history, the Peloponnesian Wars and,
you know when you reflect on how Bean was chastised by editors for not being
romantic enough in his coverage and often reproached himself for not having
enough poetry in his copy – preferring to set out the facts. I can just quote
to you from Thucydides’ work, two and a half thousand years ago, and he wrote:  
  
“The absence of romance in my history will, I fear, detract somewhat from its
interest but if it be judged useful by those who desire an exact knowledge of
the past as an aid to the interpretation to the future I shall be content.”  
  
So there is a long thread of telling the truth from Thucydides right down to
our war correspondents of today.  
  
Now we also have with us Peter Greste. Peter Greste’s courage and his
dedication to telling the truth and paying a very heavy price for us is
understood by us all and I want, Peter – as I said to you yesterday – you to
know that the Australian Government continues to support you and your
colleagues and will continue to press the government of Egypt to pardon you
and the other journalists with whom you worked that are still imprisoned in
Egypt.  
  
So, finally, friends, I want to acknowledge the support of the benefactors
here today, particularly those in the Australian media and – without running
the great, very grave risk for any politician to single out one part of the
media over another – I cannot but help note a friend, Kerry Stokes, whose
generosity as one Australia’s greatest philanthropists and his generosity to
the Memorial is truly remarkable and a great example to all of us.  
  
I want to thank the War Memorial itself, led by Dr Nelson, for the great care
they have given to the creation of this Memorial and their dedication to
protecting and preserving Australia’s heritage.  
  
And, finally, may I just conclude where I began. We are one of the oldest
democracies in the world. Our democracy depends on many men and women, on many
institutions – all of them vitally important – but none is more important than
a free and courageous press and today we are honouring the war correspondents,
but in doing so, we are honouring the freedom they have worked so hard to
preserve.  
  
Thank you very much.Our thoughts and prayers are with the family of Curtis Cheng the NSW Police
Service employee who was killed yesterday. I also want to praise the swift
action of the special constables of NSW Police who brought that terrorist
incident to a close. Only last week we observed Police Remembrance Day. We
must never forget that our security, safety, indeed our democracy depends on
the vigilance, professionalism, and courage of our police and security
agencies, who every day are putting their lives and safety on the line to keep
us safe.  
  
As you know the Premier and Police Commissioner of NSW Mr Scipione have just
given a press conference. I want to endorse what they have said. We should
live our lives normally. Especially on this Grand Final weekend. We should
live our lives without fear. The Commonwealth agencies, the security service,
the AFP and other agencies are working very closely with the NSW Police.  
  
I have been in over last evening and today, in close contact with my own
colleagues, the Attorney General Mr Brandis, Senator Brandis, the Justice
Minister, Mr Keenan, the Foreign Minister and also with the Commissioner of
Federal Police, Mr Colvin, the National Director of Security Mr Duncan Lewis
and of course Mr Baird the Premier and Police Commissioner Andrew Scipione. We
are working very, very closely together and you will note that my remarks are
consistent with theirs. We are working as a team.  
  
Australians should understand that, that both State and Federal Government and
all of our agencies are working together seamlessly with a common determined
purpose to ensure the security of our nation and its people. Now as Mr
Scipione has said, this appears to have been an act of politically motivated
violence so at this stage it appears to have been an act of terrorism. It is a
shocking crime. It was a cold-blooded murder, targeting the NSW Police
Service.  
  
It was doubly shocking because it was perpetrated by a 15-year-old boy and it
underlines the importance of families, communities, leaders being very aware
of whether young people are becoming radicalised. It is also important that to
remember that the Australian Muslim community will be especially appalled and
shocked by this. As Commissioner Scipione and the Premier have noted, we must
not vilify or blame the entire Muslim community with the actions of what is,
in truth, a very, very small percentage of violent extremist individuals.  
  
The Muslim community are our absolutely necessary partners in combatting this
type of violent extremism. Now I would note that we have been on a state of
high alert in terms of terrorist acts for the last 12 months. The police, both
State and Federal level, and security agencies across the country are
continuing to be vigilant and professional in protecting us. The issue of
radicalisation, particularly of young people, as young as 15 in this case, is
a very, very complex one. At the Federal level, the Attorney-General's
Department is running de-radicalisation programs, a great deal of work is
being done on it at State level as well. It is very challenging to understand
the rapid pace of radicalisation in a very, very small number of individuals
who nonetheless can do great harm to others.  
  
It is important to remember what I said at the outset, however, that we are
utterly determined, totally united, professional and committed to ensuring
Australia and its people are safe. We can be confident in the work of our
security agencies and police. We cannot guarantee that incidents will not
occur but it's important to understand that we have the best police services,
the best intelligence services and we are staying on top of these issues. It's
also important to understand the critical importance of the collaboration, co-
operation with the Muslim community. Efforts to blame or vilify the Muslim
community are utterly counterproductive.  
  
And so, today is Grand Final weekend. We go on, we lead our lives, we are a
strong and confident nation. We have challenges. Terrorism is one of them. But
they must never divert us from our commitment to being free Australians,
working together to ensure we achieve our common goals.  
  
Thank you very much.Well, thank you very much, Christopher, and can I say right at the outset,
before I embark on the extravagant praise that is due to Ian Chubb, can I
second the remarks that Christopher made about his predecessor in the industry
and science portfolio, Ian Macfarlane.  
  
Ian has been a remarkable leader in Australian government over many years.
He's been a minister for energy, a minister for industry, minister for science
and just recently Ian, you showed a judgment about probably the most important
choice that people in our line of work have to make. Because we can't do
everything ourselves, the most important thing we've got to do is hire, engage
good people to do the work for us.  
  
Ian Macfarlane recognising and treasuring the importance of the CSIRO and
determined to ensure that it was resilient and creative and dynamic and had
the leadership the 21st century demanded, first appointed Larry Marshall as
the Chief Executive and then appointed David Thodey as its chairman. Two
outstanding Australians who can bring to that great scientific organisation
the entrepreneurial and transformational skills that it needs to be even
greater in the 21st century. Fantastic judgment, great choices, great
leadership. Ian, you have done such great work for Australian science in your
time as a Minister. Thank you very much.  
  
Now let me take a moment to acknowledge our Chief Scientist Ian Chubb, whose
distinguished term of leadership in the science community ends on 31st of
December – five years. Ian, you once said that being the Chief Scientist and
being out there talking about science was not a chore but a little tiring for
a retired gentleman. Well, if in coming months you do get some rest, which I
doubt, having regard to your hyperactive personality, it will be well earned,
if improbable. You have been a champion of science and you have done so much
to lift the esteem of scientists and science teachers around the country. Even
when science has been under attack, you have never flinched and you have
always stood up for science and its central importance in Australia, both
today and in our future.  
  
I'm told productivity is all the rage and I'm told that last year you
delivered 104 speeches, attended 541 meeting – you should be canonised for
that – and visited nine countries. You have been a really outstanding advocate
and among your achievements are helping set the national science and research
priorities, benchmarking Australian science in three major reports and of
course delivering advice to the Government through the Science Council – of
course we had a meeting just a few hours ago here in Parliament House.  
  
I know that you won't ever truly retire, in fact it's a very bad thing to
retire, if I may say so, I'm quite serious. Talking about medical scientists,
or medical men and women, two great psychiatrists in this country are Ian
Hickie and his wife Liz, I'm sure many of you from the medical world know them
well. And Ian Hickie and I have often talked about the problems with young
people and depression among young people, often young men, as you know, it's a
very big issue that our Government and governments everywhere have sought to
address, and Ian said to me once, he said "With older men it's very simple,
never retire, keep working". So there it is, don't retire, you will just get
sad. So, think of yourself, think of your own health, just keep working, work
until you drop, just keep doing it.  
  
Now, the best accolade I can give Ian Chubb is to assure him that we're
working to put into effect the very ambitious agenda he set us. We have to be
– and we will be – a country that invests in science and puts it right at the
centre of our national agenda.  
  
Let me say to you, the alternative is really not an option. If we want to
remain, and we do, a high-wage, generous social welfare net, first world
economy in a rapidly expanding global economy that has vastly more
opportunities than we could ever imagined only a decade or a generation ago,
and is more competitive than ever. If we want to seize those opportunities and
not be cowed into fearful desperation by the challenges, if we want to take on
those opportunities, then we have to be everything that your work as
scientists enables us to be – more productive, more innovative, more
technologically sophisticated, more imaginative.  
  
We have to be a nation that embraces volatility and is not frightened by it.
We have to recognise that the disruption, the pace of which is unprecedented
in human history, is an opportunity, not a threat. We have to be courageous,
not fearful. We have to recognise the central role of science and the work of
scientists and people that follow the scientific method. I was just speaking
to Graham Farquhar about uncertainty in science and I know that sometimes
people will criticise scientists for saying that something is not certain.
Well you know something, nothing is certain except death and taxes. That I can
absolutely assure you is certain – you won’t escape either of them.  
  
What we have to do is recognise that we, all of us, whether we are scientists
or politicians or whatever, we live in a world of uncertainty where we have to
be agile and we have to adopt the scientific method of developing one
hypothesis after another, the hypothesis improving as we have more information
and more experience, recalibrating it in the light of that and adjusting our
policies, our approaches, as we achieve greater information. That is
absolutely critical. That's why we should never allow people to say, we as
politicians, as governments, if we change a policy, never allow people to say
"You've back flipped, you've backtracked". The reality is that we can't
guarantee that every policy will work.  
  
The most we can guarantee in the real world of rational discourse, as opposed
to what passes as political discourse from time to time, the most we can
guarantee is that our policies are the best we can put together in light of
the information we have at the time. If experience suggests that we should
adjust them or change them, we will do so. If they don't work, we'll dump
them. If they can be improved, we will improve them. If somebody else has done
something that is even better than what we have thought of, then we will,
recognising that plagiarism is the sincerest form of flattery; we will pinch
it and use it. We have to be absolutely nimble. Now you have seen the way we
have put innovation and science at the centre of our agenda. This is of
critical importance, absolutely critical importance, to our success as a
nation, to our success in the world.  
  
Now, the Prime Minister's Science Awards have been a feature of the Australian
scientific community since 2000. In that time, the recipients of the award
have come from all around the world. At least six were borne outside of
Australia. Others like Sam Berkovic were raised by Jewish immigrants who
survived Nazi death camps and fled Europe after the Second Wold War. It's a
reminder that in fostering an environment for innovation and science, we have
to build an ecosystem from the bottom up.  
  
At the top are the great institutions like our universities and the CSIRO,
which has had far too much lavish praise today, Larry Marshall – we will have
to think of something to pull Larry back after all the praise he's had today.
The Labor Party asked me about the CSIRO today in the Parliament. I couldn't
help myself, Larry, about saying how fantastic the CSIRO is.  
  
But below that, education institutions like schools that inspire the next
generations of researchers to become interested in science. Two teachers
tonight I spoke to – one primary, one secondary – who have won prizes tonight
and will be honoured later, they are really in the frontline. If we are to be
a more scientifically literate community, as we must be, if we are to be more
aware of the challenges of the world around us and prepared to engage them and
investigate them in an honest and rigorous way, then we need great teachers,
not just at the universities, not just for doctoral students, but in primary
schools and secondary schools.  
  
Good teachers change lives. The charisma, the passion of a good teacher, and I
suspect most of us here in this room have had their lives changed by a great
teacher. I certainly have. Those great teachers change people's lives and in
doing so they can change the destiny of a nation. They are at the very fulcrum
of destiny, changing lives at their most impressionable, at the time when you
can ensure that somebody's real potential can be maximised. So the teachers,
at every level, at the universities to be sure, but at the primary schools and
secondary schools, they are shaping Australia in the 21st century and they
deserve our support and they deserve the prizes and the recognition they are
being given tonight.  
  
Now my former partner in establishing OzEmail, which some of the older ones
may still have an OzEmail internet account, they have become collector’s
items. But my former colleague, great technologist who began as a medical
student and dropped out – there’s quite a few people who have done that and
gone on to greatness. But my former partner Sean Howard said that in this age,
many years ago, well over 20 years ago, when the frontier of knowledge is
advancing at the greatest rate ever in our history, we are not lacking in
technological tools, what we often lack is technological imagination.  
  
That is a fundamental point when it comes to some of the limitations of
government. We play a critical role in ensuring we get the basic settings
right. From investments in education, research and infrastructure, to our own
use of technology and Christopher mentioned the digital transformation office
that we've established to take the Government's use of technology into the
21st century or as somebody said to me, it would be good to get it into the
late 20th century would be a start. But we are doing well and making good
process, I can assure you.  
  
We play a very important part in supporting the entire innovation system. But
we can't simply flick a switch to turn on an innovation nation. We have to
fund, target programs with a clear policy rationale. If a program like the
R&amp;D; tax incentive is successful, it should continue to be funded but we
always have to test that it is meeting its objective. You could say that we've
always got to be operating in Beta. We have to be agile and we have to be
honest about that. We have got to recognise that in a highly disrupted, highly
volatile environment, agility means you keep your eye on the goal, if you are
in business it's the customer, if you are in politics, it's the policy
objective and then you have to adjust your course, much like a sailor adjusts
his or her course in a sailing race and knows what point to reach but is
constantly trimming the sails and adjusting the rudder to meet that.  
  
There is a dreadful tendency in politics to confuse the means with the end.
We've got to be very adaptable and very flexible about the means we use but,
of course, focus on that end which is, as I said right at the outset, ensuring
that we remain and become even more so a high wage, generous social welfare
net, first world economy. That is the critical goal. We do that by ensuring
that we are more technologically sophisticated, more innovative, more creative
and so forth. Everything we do has to be focused on that.  
  
There's a tendency in Canberra, perhaps in the pages of financial newspapers,
to talk about economic reform and economic reform is important but the real
objective is jobs, the real objective is growth, the real objective is
ensuring that the Australians have the ability to realise all of their dreams
more than ever, that they have greater opportunities, that their intellect,
their imagination can be better exploited and displayed and deployed all
around the world and we do that by ensuring that we are agile. And you are a
critical part of it.  
  
So, I want to say congratulations to all of you, it is a great honour for me,
not just to be Prime Minister, but to be your Prime Minister, to be the Prime
Minister that says that science is right at the centre and the heart of our
national agenda and not just that, it is at the very heart and the centre of
our future.  
  
Thank you very much.Well thank you very much, Mike – and can I adopt and embellish all of your
acknowledgements to all the very distinguished guests we have here tonight.  
  
Can I also echo your remarks about the loss of Jackie Sutton. The workers, the
staff of the UN put their lives on the line all the time and all too often pay
the highest price.  
  
The United Nations is often seen as being a largely administrative exercise
but its servants, its collaborators, including many Australians, many
Australian servicemen and women and policemen and women, over many years, over
65,000 Australians have served in UN missions around the world. Keeping the
peace, supporting the peace, helping the helpless is often very dangerous
work.  
  
And when we celebrate the 70th birthday of the United Nations, the United
Nations is born on the same day that I was born. I am a little bit younger
than the United Nations. But all my life, I’ve had my birthday on United
Nations Day, so I feel specially privileged to be here as your Prime Minister
celebrating United Nations Day.  
  
But can I also add to the list of acknowledgements that of Robert Hill – a
very distinguished predecessor of Marise Payne as defence minister and also a
predecessor of mine as environment minister but above all, in this context,
Australia's Ambassador to the United Nations.  
  
Australia plays a very committed role in the United Nations system. As you
know, Doc Evatt – Herbet Vere Evatt – was the third president of the General
Assembly. We were there at the foundation and we have been an enthusiastic
partner, member of the United Nations ever since.  
  
Julie Bishop demonstrated how important a role on the Security Council could
be when she was able to secure the entire support of the global community to
stand up and take on the challenge of the shocking crime that was committed
over the Ukraine in the shooting down of MH17. Julie demonstrated how powerful
that United Nations platform was.  
  
And as you know, we have logged a claim for a future bid for the Security
Council, some years hence, and we’ve also lodged a bid to join the Human
Rights Council of the United Nations. So, there is a continuing commitment to
the United Nations.  
  
Mike talked about the compassion of the UN and the compassion of Australia.
Let me say this to you, that the United Nations is the single largest most
idealistic organisation in the world. Every nation is a member. It was
designed or built by some, I suppose, to end wars but more realistically, to
work together and challenge the proposition that might is right.  
  
Two and a half thousand years ago or thereabouts, the Athenian general
Thucydides wrote what is probably the earliest work of real history – his
history of the Peloponnesian War, the war between the Athenians and Spartans.
And in book five he describes a time when the Athenians led by the general
Alcibiades went to the island of Melos, which was neutral and said to the
Melians, you are either with us or against us. You have to join with us or we
will finish you off. The Melians said we are just a little country, we’re just
a little city, we want to stay neutral, we want to be independent.  
  
And the debate is chronicled by Thucydides – it’ called the Melian Dialogue,
it’s probably the earliest exposition of realpolitik, because at the end of it
the Athenian ambassadors losing patience say to the Melians, enough of this
nonsense about justice and fairness, you know that in the real world justice
is only found between equals in power, as for the rest, the strong do as they
will and the weak suffer as they must.  
  
That might is right proposition, has dominated realpolitik forever since and
no doubt before the Melian Dialogue. But that is what the United Nations seeks
to take on. The challenge that nations working collectively can say to the
great and powerful, there are rules, the weak must be protected, the rule of
law must be obeyed, not just domestically but internationally.  
  
Imperfect in its execution, often, dissatisfied, often, but the ideal of the
United Nations is a vitally important one. And I wanted to just conclude with
this thought: that we are standing here on the shores of this beautiful
harbour, in this great city in our great nation, we are the most successful
multicultural society in the world. There is simply no other country – no
other comparable country – whose population is so diverse, that is drawn from
so many backgrounds, from so many faiths, ethnic backgrounds, cultural
backgrounds, as Australia.  
  
In this city of Sydney, nearly a third of all the people that live in this
city were born outside of Australia and we live together with great harmony –
we live together with great harmony. And what defines that harmony, nothing
less than respect – mutual respect. That two-way street of respect is what
enables us to live together so successfully. It is the ideal which the United
Nations aspires to. The rule of law, respect for others – high ideals, hard to
achieve, but so important to work hard and to aspire to.  
  
This is a great day – the 70th Anniversary of the United Nations. A great
ideal. I think we should all look forward to another 70 years of practical
idealism from the United Nations.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
  
  
Well thank you very much Georgie. Lucy and I are really thrilled to be with
you all today and I want to echo Tamara's thanks to all of the supporters of
the Pink Ribbon Breakfast. You know, governments give an enormous amount of
money to cancer research, as they should do, in fact, since 2000 they have
been 406 grants from the federal government, totalling more than $230 million
for breast cancer research alone, through the NHMRC.  
  
But, government's generosity, it's not really government's generosity, it’s
government's duty is one thing, the support generous individuals, like
yourselves. Whether it is in a corporate form, such as Macquarie Bank the lead
sponsor, Nicholas Moore, Shemara Wikramanayake , here as the leading figures
from Macquarie Bank, thank you very much. But all the other supporters, Jack
Logan, your generosity.  
  
I want to thank all of you, from my heart, because government’s money, a
dollar from the government buys as much as a dollar from an individual donor,
from a philanthropist, it just buys exactly the same.  
  
But the difference is this, that when people decide to make a personal
contribution, or they decide that their business is going to make a
contribution, it comes attached with it an element of love, an element of
advocacy, an element of personal commitment that is quite remarkable. And so,
a partnership between government, individuals, corporations, donations large,
donations very small, forms a great alliance, a real alliance.  
  
And you can see the power of that. I mean if you look at the work of another
great campaigner, the great philanthropist herself, Nelune Rajapakse, here,
what Nelune has done in raising money for cancer treatment and cancer research
for many, many years is a real inspiration to us all. So, thank you all very
much for your generosity and for your continued support.  
  
Now, the main job I have today is to launch this report from the Australian
Institute of Health and Welfare. It’s called Breast Cancer in Young Women: the
key facts about Breast Cancer in women in their 20s and 30s.  
  
Now this is the first national report to present key data which is specific to
breast cancer among young women at a national level. Helen Zorbas and I, the
CEO of Cancer Australia, were just talking about this just before I got up.  
  
This is a very, very important piece of work and it’s going to raise awareness
because it is, in 2015 alone, this year, it’s projected that 795 young women
will be diagnosed with breast cancer and 65 will die from it, which is an
average of two diagnoses a day and one death a week. Now, while breast cancer
occurs relatively rarely in young women, the number of young women diagnosed
with this disease each year is significant and thanks to this new report, for
the first time we have a picture of the impact of breast cancer on young
Australian women.  
  
Look it is, it is heartbreaking to contemplate the impact of breast cancer on
any woman, let alone young women. It’s heartbreaking to contemplate the way in
which disease, cancers can interrupt young lives, tear mothers away from their
children.  
  
It’s often uncomfortable to talk about but it does happen and we have to talk
about it. The awareness of breast cancer, the Pink Ribbon Breakfast and many
other initiatives, the Jane McGrath Foundation for example, all of these
exercises don't simply raise money, which is very important, without the money
we can't have the research that finds the cures, without the money we can't
fund the facilities that enabled the treatment of cancer patients and their
and the support of their families be continuously improved but it also raises
awareness. So it’s really important to be upfront and open about these things.  
  
Now, if we work together, we make sure that women, especially focusing today,
young women, are very aware, get the best advice. Be aware of their own
bodies, be aware of how they can be alert to symptoms so that they can get
early treatment. And as we know the prognosis for breast cancer which is
detected early and treated is very good compared to what it was years ago. And
that’s in large part due to the work of scientists, Cancer Australia,
philanthropists, all of you, collective effort has changed the lives of so
many cancer patients.  
  
So this Pink Ribbon Breakfast is an important step every year in that
campaign.  
  
I want to thank you all very much for being here, I want to thank governments,
particularly Jillian Skinner our Health Minister in New South Wales herself an
example of leadership over many years and the determination to ensure that the
people of this state are better cared for. And if I may say so Jillian, an
example to all of us in government, your combination of charisma, confidence
and competence is something that we should all aspire to.  
  
So, thank you all very much and please remember the support you give buys no
more than the dollars from the government but it comes with your love and that
is the most powerful thing of all.  
  
Thank you very muchEconomics is often said to be the dismal science.  
  
Well, there should be nothing dismal about today’s discussions.  
  
And that’s not just because we are in marvellous Melbourne – somewhat damply
glowing with joy and pride at the way in which Michelle Payne gloriously
despatched first another glass ceiling and then her detractors with a pithy
candour politicians can only envy.  
  
We are living in the most exciting times in human history.  
  
Free markets, globalisation, long periods of peace and above all the
acceleration of technological change has produced economic and political
transformations at a speed never seen before.  
  
In the lifetime of almost everyone in this room, China has gone from barely
contributing to the world economy to becoming the single largest national
economy.  
  
In just a generation we’ve seen the Internet and the smart phone connect most
people in the developed world and before long most people in the entire world
to each other and potentially to all the knowledge mankind has accumulated.  
  
The first iPhone was released only eight years ago; Google was founded 17
years ago; Facebook with 1.5 billion active users - and YouTube with 1 billion
users - are ten years old, Twitter is nine years old and Airbnb and Uber are
seven and six years old respectively.  
  
Most of the companies reinventing our world would still be at school if they
were humans.  
  
And the venerable elder statesmen of the digital age - Microsoft and Apple -
are 40 and 39 years old respectively. Think about it.  
  
In the midst of all this change - economic, political, technological - the
opportunities for Australians have never been greater or the horizons wider.  
  
But how do we seize those opportunities, how do we ensure that in the midst of
this dynamic region, in the midst of so much growth and change, we are able
successfully to transition our economy to one that wins and keeps on winning.  
  
We talk a lot about reform, especially here, but that’s just a means to an
end. Let’s talk about where we want to be - a big national goal.  
  
Surely it is that we should continue to be a high wage, generous social
welfare safety net, first world economy. A nation that is as fair as it is
open to opportunity.  
  
And how do we do that?  
  
Clearly as an open market economy in a much larger, more competitive world, we
must be more productive, more innovative, more competitive.  
  
Across the board, we must acquire not just the skills but the culture of
agility that enables us to make volatility our friend, bearing fresh
opportunities, not simply a foe brandishing threats.  
  
So reform, since that is the topic of your conference, should not be seen as a
once in a decade or two convulsion, accompanied by a hyperbolic scare
campaign.  
  
Rather it should be seen as a change of political culture that sees us like
the sailor, surrounded by the uncertainty of the sea and the wind, who knows
only two things for sure - where she needs to go and that she has the skill to
get there.  
  
Sometimes the sailor reaches the mark with rapid ease, her sails big bellied
in a following wind; sometimes with slow and deliberate tenacity, sails close
hauled, tacking into the teeth of a gale.  
  
But her vision is as clear as her destination is certain. How to get there and
how quickly is the measure of her skill.  
  
As we focus on our future course, it requires us above all to be open and
honest about our circumstances, understanding and explaining both the
challenges and the opportunities.  
  
It is fair to point out where mistakes have been made and being only human
inevitably concentrating on those made by our opponents while treading lightly
past our own.  
  
But over the years I’ve noticed the public, on whose goodwill all hope of
reform depends, is impatient with the blame game.  
  
The first step in persuasion is to understand and respect the intelligence of
your audience - in this case that is the Australian people.  
  
We need to explain that every vector, every sinew of our government’s policy
is designed to deliver better jobs and greater opportunities - in short a more
prosperous and secure future for them and their children and grandchildren.
And above all that one that is fair both to those who want to get ahead and
those who, for whatever reason, are not able to do so.  
  
That is why good open discussion and consultation aids the task of reform.
Because it is not enough to persuade the public that your motives are good -
you also have to demonstrate that you’ve taken decisions in a thoughtful,
open, consultative way, that you’ve carefully weighed up the various options
and arguments.  
  
And that is why we are not trying to reduce complex issues to slogans, why we
are not playing the rule in rule out game, that’s why we welcome every
contribution to this debate.  
  
So, across government, business, the labour movement, the wider community, we
need to have a grown up discussion which first clarifies the policy goals and
then identifies and removes any obstacles that may be hampering our capacity
to generate growth, productivity, investment and jobs.  
  
We need to work practically and in partnership, to anticipate economic
opportunities as they emerge and to be brave enough and smart enough to make
the most of them.  
  
If a particular policy approach doesn’t deliver as required or anticipated, we
have to be ready to reappraise it, reset as and when needed so objectives can
still be met.  
  
If a policy doesn’t work, chuck it out, if you see somebody is achieving your
objective in a better way remember the sincerest form of flattery is
plagiarism, copy them, take it over. Adjust, tweak, agility is the key, the
objective is what we’re all about. Remember we are like that sailor of whom I
spoke, we know where we want to go. We are surrounded by uncertainties and we
have to adjust our course, our tactics, our policies to get there. Agility in
today’s world, in a world of volatility is absolutely key and that requires a
very significant change to the political culture and political discourse.  
  
This new discourse, this new culture that embraces change, which is by the way
no more than what the business world does all the time, I mean we have, what
we are seeking to do is to talk about policy in the same way practical men and
women in the business world have been doing forever. What we need to do is
embrace change, be adaptable, flexible, innovative.  
  
Structural shifts in today’s global economy are not dissimilar in scale and
scope to the transition from the agrarian to an industrial society, but it is
the velocity of change that is unprecedented.  
  
It is the velocity of change, the rapidity. The changes that used to take
centuries are now taking years, maybe a decade.  
  
Right now, for us in Australia, there is also the challenge of making the
transition to the post mining boom era. As you know at the beginning of the
last decade, the rapid industrialisation of emerging economies led by China
and in particular by China’s massive stimulus response to the Global Financial
Crisis, drove unprecedented demand for raw materials like coal and iron ore.  
  
Prices rose sharply, they delivered a massive windfall gain to Australian
incomes and a boom in new resources projects globally. In Australia alone,
mining investment rose from less than two per cent of GDP in the early 2000’s
to a peak of over seven a decade later.  
  
As this new supply has come on stream, as China is rebalancing to have more
consumption, move towards - still a long way to go I might add - move towards
a more conventional share of GDP than it is today.  
  
We’ve seen a sharp fall in our terms of trade. This was always going to happen
by the way, this was always going to happen. We can’t rely on rapid growth in
commodity prices to fuel future income growth.  
  
But there are enormous opportunities available to us and to his great and
enduring credit, Andrew Robb, fellow Victorian has opened up the doors to
these markets and in particular the China market with the Free Trade
Agreement.  
  
It’s not so long ago I was in this very room of this hotel with a Chinese
online business JD Worldwide, the largest in China which was opening up its
virtual doors to Australian businesses. Did you know that the Chinese online
commerce market is already larger than that of the United States? The rapid
growth of this economy at the consumption level is remarkable. For the first
time in 300 years, if you believe Angus Matterson’s work, which of course we
must, the number of Asian middle class consumers equals the number in Europe
and North America combined.  
  
Our services exports have been growing by nine per cent over the last five
years which has seen rapid growth in agricultural exports, food and drink and
so forth, education, tourism, design - right across China you see the work of
Australian architects.  
  
Now these are enormous opportunities. How do we equip ourselves best to take
advantage of them? A key focus of our Government is innovation. I said
earlier, we need to be more innovative, we need to be more technologically
sophisticated. We will deliver next month an innovation statement, a set of
policies that will focus on how we attract and retain talent, how we support
and encourage start-ups. How we, across the Government and the country,
encourage a culture of innovation, ensure that our children are requiring the
STEM skills that they need, that they have the understanding or familiarity
with machine languages that they will need in the future.  
  
Let me say a little about tax, it is much in the news but the Treasurer will
be speaking later. The object of the taxation system is plainly to raise the
revenue the Government needs for its services it provides. But it must do so
in a manner that backs Australians to work, save and invest, that backs them
in rather than holds them back. That has, in the language of the Melbourne
Institute, the minimum dead weight loss, the minimum handbrake on economic
activity.  
  
Now of course any set of tax reforms must be fair which is why picking off one
of the by now very venerable reform proposals, I am waiting to see one that
hasn't been around for a decade or so. We need a new idea here. I am looking
at Chris Richardson, in particular. Surely there must be one!  
  
They have been kicking around for a while and there is no harm in that. That
is why picking off one of these by now venerable proposals in isolation to
others is always going to be misleading. I think you understand the point I am
making there. A reform package must at the very least, raise the revenue we
need, share the burden fairly across the community and do so in a way that
incentivises employment, investment and innovation. Fairness I repeat is
absolutely critical. Any package of reforms which is not and is not seen as
fair will not and cannot achieve the public support without which it simply
will not succeed.  
  
There are many other elements of reform in this field and I’ll just touch on
one of them the Ian Harper report – that will not gather dust. It poses
important challenges for all Government, especially, or including if not
especially State Governments. There are very big - still very big structural
breaks on growth. I heard the Chairman of the Productivity Commission talking
this morning on the radio about the supply side constraints on development and
planning. The Federal Government's arms are a long way from those levers.
Nonetheless, it is something we have to recognise.  
  
It is one of the reasons why we have a Minister for Cities and the Built
Environment, why we are engaging with cities, with States on matters of
infrastructure in a thoroughly non-ideological manner. Why we will support and
indeed invest in infrastructure based on what it delivers, analysed in a
rigorous, cost benefit manner and without discriminating between one type of
infrastructure or another.  
  
I have outlined a few ways here where we are seeking to deliver those goals. A
high wage, generous social welfare net first world economy, one that is more
innovative, more competitive, more productive.  
  
That is the goal of the Government. That is what we are seeking to do in this
field. We will use every measure that we can to achieve that. Everything we do
will be assessed by that test.  
  
Is this making Australia more prosperous? Is this making us more competitive?
Is it enabling us to compete more effectively? Is it enabling us to seize the
opportunities of the future rather than, as some would have us hiding under
the doona, shuddering at the changes around them.  
  
We are living in the best times in human history. There has never been a more
exciting time to be an Australian. The challenge for our Government is to do
everything we can, with your help, with all of the ideas and the advice, with
all of the consideration and thought that you and so many other Australians
can muster, to do all we can to ensure that we enable Australians to do their
best, enable them to realise those opportunities, seize that future,
confident, optimistic, proud and strong. This is a great era of opportunity.
We are a great nation with a great future. Thank you very much.Well, Catherine, thank you so much for that very generous introduction. And
can I just say that it is fantastic to be on a unity ticket with you, and I
know with all of your colleagues in the BCA, in favour of innovation.  
  
And Catherine said something about innovation being for the whole of the
economy, and that is a fundamental point. A lot of people think that
innovation is about a couple of people, you know, in a garage, someone in
their parent’s garage coming up with a fantastic new application. And, that
type of start-up is a big part of the innovation ecosystem. A big part of the
economy. As I was saying this morning in Melbourne, speaking to the Melbourne
Institute, when you think about the big firms, the big companies that have
essentially recreated a digital world, or reformed our world in the digital
space, many of them, if most of them if they were humans, would still be at
school.  
  
Google itself, the giant Google, dominating the landscape, 17 years old. And
the elder statesmen of the digital age, Microsoft and Apple, are 40 and 39
respectively. And I'm sure there are lots of people here who are younger than
that.  
  
The reality is that we are living in a world with a pace of change that is
utterly unprecedented. And we do need to draw breath occasionally and reflect
on it.  
  
Forty years ago China barely participated in the global economy. Now it is the
world's single largest national economy. China’s online market, its online
commerce market is larger in dollar terms than that of the United States, and
of course has a lot further to go.  
  
The transformation of the middle class in Asia is extraordinary. This, if you
believe Angus Madison's great work that he did for the OECD years ago about
economies over millennia, this is the first time for 300 years that half of
the world's middle class are living in Asia. And that is as of right now in
2015.  
  
And of course that is simply because of population, because of the inexorable
consequences of demography, that huge consumer mass will be of middle-class
consumers, will be dominated by the big Asian economies.  
  
So the opportunities for us are absolutely extraordinary. There has never been
a better time to be an Australian. There has never been a better time to be an
Australian business. There has never been a more exciting times for Australia.  
  
The opportunities are enormous and the only barriers, the only constraints,
the only limitations we have, my friends, are our own imagination or our own
enterprise. It is all there.  
  
We have, and I'm appropriating Andrew Robb's great diplomacy, we have opened
up those economies in a way that also is unprecedented in our history. The
China-Australia Free Trade Agreement is the best free trade agreement, the
highest quality free trade agreement China has ever entered into.  
  
And only last week I was in South Australia and Tasmania talking to so many
people, so many businesses, mostly businesses much smaller than those you
represent who are seeing the benefits of that, particularly in food and wine.
The Premier of South Australia, Jay Weatherill is here and would understand
the impact that that China market is having on his own State.  
  
And you know, turning to South Australia for a moment, in deference to the
Premier, and of course I acknowledge all the other distinguished
Parliamentarians here, especially my colleagues.  
  
I see the Cabinet Secretary, Arthur Sinodinos, there, he was a pillar of the
Howard Government, he is now a, positively a flying buttress of the Turnbull
Government. Re-incorporated. Lucy would approve that, a bit of adaptive re-use
from an architectural point of view.  
  
But Jay Weatherill would understand this, as would all South Australians, if
you said that, if you said "85-year-old manufacturing business in Adelaide",
most people would think, "Gosh, that sounds a bit grim," and there are many
examples of this. I am singling this company out, but it is a good example.  
  
A company 85 years old, making plumbing fittings, manufacturing company in
Adelaide, Philmac. It is a leading exporter in its niche, in a rather
specialised niche, making gate valves and plumbing fittings, it employs nearly
300 people, it is about to employ another 30, and you can see that that is a
company which is driven by innovation.  
  
So you don't have to be - and this gets back to Catherine's point - you don't
have to be a start-up by some brilliant young engineers from the university to
be an innovative company.  
  
What we need across the nation, across the corporate world, across the world
of government, is a change to the culture that recognises that in an age of
rapid, unprecedented change, in an age of disruption, in an age of transition,
we need to be thoroughly agile.  
  
We need to be prepared at every stage to say the way we did thing s yesterday,
or last week, is not the way we will do them in the future.  
  
That means organisations need to be much less hierarchical, they cannot be
blame-based. You have to, as chief executives or senior executives; you've got
to encourage the people that work for you to challenge you. You've got to
ensure that you're always testing existing practices. You know, the old phrase
"not invented here, we've always done that way" is disastrous.  
  
It's always important to be cautious, of course, but in a disruptive age of
rapid change, deference, if overdone can be death from a corporate point of
view. Change is rapid. We've got to treat volatility as our friend, not as our
foe.  
  
Now the Government's objectives in terms of its economic policy are very
simple. Very easily stated.  
  
We need to ensure that Australia remains a high-wage generous social welfare
net, first world economy. We need to ensure that our communities increase, our
horizons expand, our children and our grandchildren can have better jobs, more
exciting jobs, bigger opportunities than we have had.  
  
And to do that, it is perfectly plain that we have to be more innovative, more
technologically advanced, more enterprising, more competitive, and more
productive, that much is absolutely clear. There is no room for complacency.  
  
The next lift in national income we all understand has to come from
productivity. And in a sense, innovation is another word for productivity. It
will lead to greater productivity.  
  
Now, for many years the perception among business is that our political
processes have not deliver as promised - that Parliaments don't work as they
should, that necessary reform has hit the wall, that the system is almost
dysfunctional.  
  
I want to say to you tonight emphatically that the business of government is
to get things done. Australians expect their elected representatives to
deliver practical common-sense policy to improve economic security and the
general wellbeing of the nation.  
  
We need to be thoroughly pragmatic. We have to be open-minded and practical,
business-like. If there are obstacles in the Parliament that can be cleared
through sensible negotiation, then we should engage constructively and
overcome those obstacles, as we did to secure the passage through the House of
the China-Australia Free Trade Agreement legislation. If it means reaching
across the aisle for bipartisanship, then we should do that, too.  
  
Businesses should not be afraid to invest because of some perceived political
risk. Our Government, any government, should push for coherence and consensus
whenever we can.  
  
We are expected to govern, we are expected to deliver. Ideology is no
substitute for results.  
  
So we need to get the economic and regulatory settings right so that we can
empower, enable rather than impede the spirit of your and so many other
businesses, smaller and younger than yours; we want to encourage their spirit
of entrepreneurship.  
  
Now, we all understand that there are big challenges out there. The global
economy has been unable to sustain the strong growth we had hoped for after
the GFC. The IMF has forecast global growth of 3.1% in 2015, compared to the
pre-GFC average of 4.2.  
  
As a result of the inevitable decline in commodity prices, we have seen major
falls in our terms of trade, some 30% from their peak. And although average
incomes are around 14% higher in real terms than they were at the beginning of
the mining boom, we simply can no longer rely on increases in our terms of
trade to drive future income growth.  
  
And so government and businesses together need to do the hard work to drive
the productivity growth that in future years and in future generations will
forge continued improvements in Australian living standards.  
  
We, the governments, need to be making the right investments in key
infrastructure. We need to make those investments in a creative and
imaginative way. We need to be prepared to invest. The Federal Government
should adopt a much more engaged and involved approach to infrastructure.
That's why I've appointed a Cities Minister, that's why we will be taking a
partnership role, a supportive role to ensure that our cities where most of
our Australians live and hence most of our GDP is developed or is created, we
need to make sure we have a creative and positive role there as well.  
  
So we want to focus then on the measures that will enable us to achieve those
goals, and we'll have more to say about that with our innovation and science
agenda to be released next month, not very long away from now.  
  
Now, I believe that we are in a world of, as I said earlier, of extraordinary
opportunities. If you take the Brookings Institution's estimates, by 2021
there could be more than two billion people in middle-class households in
Asia. Now, let's just reflect for a moment on the opportunity in China, and I
know we all spend far too much time talking about China as opposed to other
markets, but the observations about China apply to many other countries in the
region.  
  
China, as we know, has seen extraordinary economic growth which has been
largely fueled by policy-driven investment. And that was the product of
financial repression. Interest rates were kept low, both to the depositors,
hence repressing household incomes, and making money cheaper, hence you got
enormous levels of investment, very rapid rates of investment. Rapid rate of
investment and very high levels as a percentage of GDP. The Government has
been trying to re-balance back to consumption for many years, at least the
last two 5-year plans have set that as policy, but it is now starting to
happen.  
  
As China moves to a more conventional share of consumption in their GDP, that
opportunity for us is simply gigantic. Now, we need to recognise that that is
not going to - that will mean that our exports into that market will be much
more diverse than they have been in the past. They will still no doubt be
dominated by a number of large commodities, but the range of services, of
consumer goods, of food and wine and numerous other products; everything from
tourism to education to architectural design services will be available there.  
  
And so this is an extraordinary opportunity for us. Now, how do we make sure
that we are able to do that?  
  
We need to have a much more competitive economy. We need to be vastly more
agile and adaptive. But we need to do so in a way, changes that we make need
to be undertaken in a way that is seen as absolutely fair, and I made this
point in Melbourne this morning.  
  
There is a big debate going on about the tax system, and that's good. We have
quite deliberately not played the rule in-rule out game that has been a
feature of discussions before, because we want the public to understand that
all of the - everything is on the table, that the Government is approaching
these issues in a genuine, open-minded and consultative way.  
  
We want to make sure that by consulting as widely as we can we come to the
right decisions, to the right judgments, and in doing so; we build confidence
in the reform process. You see, we're prone, as business people, as
politicians, as economists, to talk about reform in abstract terms, as though
it was a virtue in itself.  
  
Reform is simply a means to an end. It simply is a means of ensuring that we
are able to compete in the years ahead, that we are able to take advantage of
those opportunities, and therefore it needs to have very deep public support.
You cannot spring change on people as a surprise. You need to build that
strong constituency.  
  
So you have to have on the one hand an acceptance, an understanding that the
purpose of reform is to create better opportunities in the future, better
jobs, and greater opportunities for investment, greater prosperity, and
greater economic security. That, if you like, is your motive, that's got to be
accepted.  
  
But then you need to ensure that people understand you've gone about it in an
open-minded and thoughtful and consultative way, and that's why I was
delighted to meet with my colleagues with the leading participants in the
national reform summit, business groups, the ACTU, ACOSS, right across the
board. The Government should be seen to be engaging as widely as possible.
That's why we welcome every contribution to this debate, even if it's
critical, even if it's saying the Government is planning to do X and that's a
bad idea. Well, that's fine.  
  
The more discussion there is, the more informed and comfortable people will be
that we are having a very sensible and serious look at things.  
  
Now I talked earlier about business and how big business and even old
businesses can be transformed by innovation. The same is true with government.
Using technology to help businesses and consumers interact with government
more easily and more effectively is an absolute no-brainer, and so we
established - I established in my own Department - when I say I did, the
Government did, but it was in the Communications department, now in PM&amp;C;
\- the digital transformation Office whose role it is to ensure that by 2017
all frequently performed transactions with Government can be undertaken on
digital platforms, end to end. That will in due course save money for
Government, but it will be genuinely transformative in terms of the way
businesses interact with government.  
  
And our goal and I say this knowing I have a Premier in the audience, our goal
is to ensure that citizens, when they deal with government, can deal with all
levels of government. When they provide, for example, something as simple as
their change of address, why do they have to provide it to one agency after
another, to one government after another?  
  
"Tell me once", should be a principle that applies right across government. We
should be able to recognise that the fascinating constitutional differences
between Local Government, State Government and Federal Government - obscure
and unclear and ambiguous as they often are - are of absolutely no interest to
citizens and most businesses. They want results.  
  
That's why I always say, when you're campaigning to be elected as a Federal
Member of Parliament, you will find that most people you meet will raise Local
Government matters with you.  
  
Now, as the first man to be the Lady Mayoress of Sydney, you can imagine I
have a very deep appreciation of Local Government, and I always say if you
want to limit your prospects of election, give your would-be constituent a
lecture on constitutional law. If you want to secure your election, say to
your constituent when they ask you as a federal candidate about the cracks in
the pavement or the rubbish collection say, "I know the mayor, I will get onto
her as quickly as possible and it will be sorted out."  
  
So the reality is that we should, without - while respecting the important
roles of government, we should in terms of our interface with the public be
able to make it far more seamless. And that's why we will make our platforms,
whether it is mygov or any other digital platforms that we develop as part of
the DTO's work, we will make that available to state and local governments for
free. So if they want to on-board, they can do so.  
  
We want more Australians, whether they are businesses or citizens, private
citizens, if you like, to be able to deal with government in a more
straightforward way.  
  
Now let me say a little bit about tax and I notice that Allen Madden was the
first person to raise tax tonight so it is obviously a key issue. The
fundamental objective of the tax system, as we know, is to raise the money
needed for government. But it is a very big lever. I mean, the tax
commissioner is in many respects the largest single shareholder in many
Australian businesses in a practical sense.  
  
So it is absolutely critical that the tax system has the minimum dead weight
loss as the economists would say the minimum brake on economic activity.  
  
So we have to always ask ourselves and be prepared to always re-examine the
tax system and the way it interacts with other - with superannuation and
transfer payments and so forth, we have to always ask, "Are we able to achieve
our objective of raising the money we need in a more efficient way?"  
  
That may not - that does not mean raising more money. It means doing so in a
way that backs business, backs enterprise, backs work, backs investment,
rather than holding it back. And as Catherine said at the outset,
circumstances change all the time. We have a lot of measures, a lot of taxes,
particularly at the State level which are very old and apply, were imposed or
created in a very different world.  
  
Now it's often said that an old tax is a good tax. That's probably true in
some respects from an administrative point of view, but in practical terms, in
2015, we have to be prepared to re-examine all of these measures and ask it
whether it is contributing to our prosperity or whether it is, in one form or
another, holding it back.  
  
And that is what re-are undertaking at the moment. We are looking at every
aspect of the tax system, of savings, transfer payments, right across the
board, with the aim of ensuring that we can deliver the revenues government
needs, but does so in a way that will contribute materially to the growth of
our economy and the opportunities for Australians.  
  
It's absolutely vital that as we do that, we do so in partnership with the
rest of the community, with business, with organised labour, with the
organisations like ACOSS. It is important that we are seen to be and are in
fact genuinely consultative. And you've seen in the short time that I've been
Prime Minister that I've reached out to many of you in this room, often with
very different interests, very different agendas, to hear what you've got to
say, because we can always draw something from it.  
  
The critical thing is that we get to the right decision and that we do so in a
way that is seen as legitimate. And it is that consultation, that engagement
that drives the legitimacy.  
  
Nobody knows for sure what the perfect policy will be. There probably is no
perfect policy, only time will tell. But nothing gives a policy greater
legitimacy than the sense that everybody has been heard, that all of the
claims, all of the stakeholders, all of the interests, all of the arguments
have been listened to.  
  
So the Government I'm leading, in summary, is one that is committed to growth,
is determined to ensure that we equip ourselves to prosper in a much more
competitive world, in a world that has vastly greater opportunities, in a
world of unprecedentedly rapid change.  
  
We want Australia to be more agile, more innovative, and more productive. As
I've said and I know Catherine has said, and I know you want it to be too. And
so we need your help, your ideas and not just from the BCA members but from
all the other interests that are here in this room, we need your help to
ensure we make the right decisions.  
  
We are absolutely committed to that task. Remember the goal. Australia a high-
wage, generous social welfare net first world economy, a country that is seen
as being open to opportunity but thoroughly fair, that backs and encourages
those who want to get ahead, but also looks after those who, for one reason or
another, are not able to. That's been our unique success in years gone by.  
  
In a different world, in a rapidly changing world, we need to be more agile to
maintain those great Australian values. I know that we can count on not just
the support but the help, the ideas, the counsel of everyone in this room to
ensure that we can do that in the years ahead.  
  
Thank you very much.Thank you very much indeed. One thing you learn very quickly in this
parliament is to respect the forensic skills of Paul Kelly. I'm here today to
celebrate another monumental effort of unrelenting, tenacious research by Paul
and his colleague Troy Bramston in bringing to us this anniversary edition of
The Dismissal.  
  
Now, the rawness of the emotions may long have subsided since those stormy
days in November 1975. But for Australians old enough to remember 40 years
back, it's quite a few of us here, this book provides a chance to explore
fresh insights into the forces driving the key protagonists, as a
parliamentary deadlock evolved into a full blown constitutional crisis,
Ultimately leading to the dismissal of the Whitlam Government.  
  
As we get up close and personal to this epic power play between Gough Whitlam,
Malcolm Fraser and John Kerr, the eyes and ears of Kelly appear to be
everywhere. They still are.  
  
We eaves drop on a fateful phone call between the Governor-General and the
Opposition Leader at 9:55 on the morning of November 11. We're taken to a
dressing room at Buckingham Palace, as Britain wakes to the news an Australian
government is being dismissed by Her Majesty's representative. We hear of a
candid conference between Paul Hasluck and Lord Charteris, aboard the Royal
yacht Britannia during the Queen's Silver Jubilee visit in 1977.  
  
There are hundreds more of these vignettes and this book sets out, in
extraordinary depth, the chronology of events and the critical conversations.
It brings to life an extensive trail of documents, including letters, notes,
records of phone calls and personal recollections.  
  
Now Australians as always will make their own judgments about 1975 and
hindsight, of course, offers 20/20 vision. Although at least for our own part,
my views on Sir John’s conduct have remained consistent since I wrote about
it, the Dismissal, at the time as a very young journalist.  
  
For what it's worth, I believed then, and I still do, that Sir John should
have given Whitlam notice of his intentions. His justification that if he had,
which he gave to me some years later when I met with him, and he's obviously
written himself, that if he had done so he feared that Whitlam would sack him
first, I don't think is an adequate justification for that failure of notice.  
  
Nonetheless, it's 40 years away, it's history, and everyone’s entitled to a
view. This book allows to us revisit those days of tumult, to look anew at the
chronology and to refresh our understanding.  
  
For those familiar with the territory it's a chance for reflection and
reappraisal.  
  
I see Sir David here, who was right at the centre, Sir David Smith, right at
the centre of these events. No doubt, with many secrets untold. There could be
another edition!  
  
Some will have their opinions confirmed – he’s shaking his head - some may be
persuaded to reconsider in the light of new knowledge.  
  
For those who come fresh to the arguments and that may now extend to two
generations of Australians, the past may well seem like a different country.  
  
But there is one enduring message of confidence arising from those days of
uncertainty and that, [inaudible] – Australia's political institutions are
able to recover and reset remarkably quickly and resiliently.  
  
Consider it this way - for all of the passion and anger about John Kerr's
intervention, the next Labor leader after Gough Whitlam was appointed
Governor-General by the next Labor PM, after Gough Whitlam. Only ten years
after the Whitlam retirement, Prime Minister Bob Hawke offered his former
leader Bill Hayden the appointment as Australia's 21st Governor-General. Bill
Hayden served for seven years in that role and both would attend John Kerr's
funeral in 1991.  
  
What should always be remembered and respected is that Australia survived this
incendiary political crisis without civil unrest, much less violence. The
basic fabric of national unity, the support for parliament and the law, remain
strong.  
  
Ultimately, in 1975 the electorate, the people, had the opportunity to declare
their verdict and they did so most emphatically in the best way we have for
deciding such matters, through a free vote.  
  
Now, would they have decided differently if they'd known then what we know
now? I'm not convinced of the usefulness of playing fantasy politics or, you
know, retro history of retro historical analysis, but I'd say this - I think
there's a second lesson that comes out of those events of 1975 - ultimately
the Australian people voted on the question of economic management. That's
what they voted on. They didn't vote on the question of the vice regal crisis
or the constitutional crisis, they voted to tip out the Whitlam Government
because they felt they were mismanaging Australia's economy.  
  
Bill Clinton might have put his finger on it himself with that great slogan,
it's the economy stupid. Was then and it still is.  
  
Now, Paul Kelly's first publication, The Unmaking of Gough, back in 1976 was a
tour de force of long form political journalism with many imitators, many
emulators, or attempted emulators, since.  
  
It took us behind the curtain of a Shakespearean epic, thrilling, meticulous
in its detail, was a master piece. It seemed as complete as any account of the
events could be. And yet now, 40 years later, Paul, along with Troy, has
painstakingly revisited the documents, re-examined the transcripts of his
interviews, tested long standing propositions against emerging facts to
produce an even more comprehensive study of November 11, 1975.  
  
I congratulate Paul and Troy on this publication; this is yet another stellar
contribution to a better understanding of our nation's history.  
  
Thank you.Thank you very much Mr President. You have welcomed me and my wife Lucy, you
and your wife Iriana, have welcomed us, here with enormous warmth. We’ve
enjoyed very frank and exciting discussions about the great future for our two
countries. A future that has really the widest opportunities in the history of
human development. We’ve never seen technological change as rapid, economic
growth as rapid as we do today and it is nowhere more exciting than it is in
our region so our two countries are brilliantly poised for a very exciting
future. The President and I discussed infrastructure and the vital importance
of infrastructure in both our countries and the President's passion as a
former Mayor, no-one is, as my wife Lucy always reminds me, no-one is closer
to the people than local Government and you understand the importance of
really good infrastructure, as we do in Australia and we've talked about how
we can facilitate greater investment, how the infrastructure hub that was
established in Sydney following the G20 can support that.  
  
Fundamentally we need to make sure that there are projects that are ready for
investment. That is absolutely critical and we talked about how we can do
that. We had a very good discussion about the cattle industry. There is great
complementarity between Northern Australia and Indonesia, between breeding and
growing cattle in Indonesia – in Australia I should say – in exporting them,
live exports to Indonesia for fattening and processing.  
  
There are also great opportunities for growing and breeding cattle in
Indonesia as well and so we can see terrific opportunities for co-investment,
Indonesian into Australia and Australia into Indonesia right across the whole
product cycle of the beef industry. Both of us as former businessman
understand the importance, the certainty and clarity in that. I think we’ve
got a common vision there, Mr President.  
  
We also, as the President said, talked about the challenge of violent
extremism and we are in a, we have a common, a common struggle there. I have
to say Mr President that I was very impressed by your, your deep reflection on
this and your three fold approach to dealing with violent extremism, security,
the law enforcement approach which of course is a vital part of the religious
approach. Making it clear that what these extremist groups are preaching is
not, is not the Islam that, that your nation endorses and that your people
practice. And then of course, the cultural challenges and particularly the
social challenges of all of us doing a better job at grappling with and
confronting and rebutting the propaganda of these groups particularly in, in
on the internet and social media. We have enormous enthusiasm from our
respective Ministers for the Australian-Indonesian relationship and of course
your Minister Panjaitan will be down in Australia very shortly and we look
forward to welcoming him and of course Minister Robb, our Minister Robb the
Trade Minister will be in Indonesia next week leading a 344 man and woman
delegation to lead the discussions on Indonesia and Australia Business Week.  
  
So, we, we have common, very common interests and common objectives and it is
about growth, it’s about jobs, it’s about stronger economies, it’s about
investment and we also share a great passion for cities and we had a very,
very good discussions about, out on the veranda with our wives talking about
planning and the opportunity for perhaps greater collaboration there.  
  
There is a lot, there is a lot more that we can do. We are, we’re very close
geographically and we now have real impetus I think in the relationship and we
will build on that. Build on that momentum for a stronger and stronger
Indonesia-Australia friendship. So it’s been a wonderful opportunity and I
thank you so much Mr President for taking the time to welcome me so warmly.Yet again we have seen a shocking terrorist attack in Paris. France, the home
of freedom, has been assaulted by terrorists determined to attack and suppress
freedom not just in France but throughout the world.  
  
This is an attack, as President Obama has said, on all humanity. On behalf of
the Australian people, I extend our deep sympathy to the people of France. Our
thoughts and prayers are with them at this terrible time.  
  
But our solidarity is with them too. When the French people left the stadium
after that shocking attack, they were not cowed. They sang their national
anthem proudly and that is how all free people should respond to these
assaults.  
  
Freedom stands up for itself, stands up for its values in the face of
terrorism. In France, and Australia, all around the world, we stand shoulder
to shoulder with the people of France and with all free peoples in the battle
against terrorism.  
  
What we know about the attack is very limited and, as I've been discussing
with the heads of ASIO, the Federal Police and my senior ministerial
colleagues, including the Deputy PM who is Acting PM in my absence, the
Foreign Minister, the Attorney-General and the Justice Minister, what we know
at the moment will undoubtedly change as more facts emerge.  
  
As the Foreign Minister has said, this attack appears to have all of the
hallmarks of a Daesh exercise, by ISIL, but more information will emerge. We
believe currently that over 200 people have been injured and over 120 have
been killed.  
  
We cannot confirm whether any Australians have been killed or injured in this
attack at this moment but there are many Australians in Paris. Our Embassy is
working very hard to ascertain their safety.  
  
Those concerned about their loved ones in France, or in Paris in particular,
should contact the DFAT, the Department of Foreign Affairs consular numbers.  
  
Now, can I say in terms of the domestic security situation in Australia, we
have discussed this at considerable length today in what is the early hours of
the morning here in Germany, where I am at the moment.  
  
The advice I have from the Federal Police and from ASIO is that the alert
level remains as it has been since September last year. The security agencies
do not believe that there is any evidence at the moment to justify any
increase in that alert level. So we should be reassured by that.  
  
But above all, we should be reassured, Australians should be reassured, that
we have the finest security agencies in the world. We have a government that
is utterly committed to protecting the safety of Australians at home and so
far as we can abroad.  
  
We are working very closely with security agencies in other countries, of
course , particularly now with the security agencies in France. And we are
ensuring that Australians are protected in our own country by updated counter-
terrorism legislation, as has been seen in the Parliament last week.  
  
Protecting Australians, protecting freedom, is a global battle. It is a global
struggle for freedom against those who seek to suppress it and seek to assert
some form of religious tyranny; a threat in the name of God but is truthfully
the work of the devil.  
  
Australians are solid in their support for freedom, we are solid in our
support for the people of France. They have our thoughts and prayers at this
terrible time.  
  
But above all, they have, as they have had on so many other occasions, the
absolute solidarity and commitment of the Australian people to support them
and all free nations in this battle against terrorism.  
  
  
  
Thank you very much Mr President and can I join our colleagues today in
thanking you very much for the magnificent work you have done in hosting the
G20 here in Antalya. It’s been a very, a very, very successful presidency and
will be long remembered for its focus on development as the President of South
Africa was just observing.  
  
I welcome the opportunity to build on the candid conversation that began in
Brisbane about the future of the multilateral trading system. How do we make
that system work better? What are the consequences if we do not succeed? I
think we recognise that in the current – and the environment that will
continue, if not accelerate – of rapid change, of rapid transition, we need
all of our economies if they are to be successful with good jobs, to be as
flexible and open as possible.  
  
Flexibility and agility are key elements in success. And so trade, free
markets are vital for our future prosperity. If you look at the case in point
in Australia, we went through – as did the Canadians and Brazilians and many
others – have benefitted from a massive commodities boom. We’ve seen in the
last few years our terms of trade decline by more than 30 per cent since their
peak in 2011. The percentage of GDP represented by mining investment went from
two per cent to nine per cent in just a few years. And that of course that
mining construction boom is coming to an end.  
  
Now throughout all of that, a independent central bank, relatively open
markets, relative to many other countries, a floating currency, a flexible
economy in most respects – not as flexible perhaps as it should be, but
flexible in most respects – has meant that we’ve made the transition
relatively well. Unemployment is coming down again. We are creating many jobs.
The workforce is growing all this despite the decline in the commodities boom
and the decline in our terms of trade. So flexibility and open markets are
vital.  
  
Now, as the German Chancellor observed, it may be that the failure of the Doha
Round, the failure of the big multilateral deal will be overtaken by a series
of smaller plurilateral deals like TPP or by bilateral deals, maybe that
collectively they will add up to a new Doha Round. We could rename it perhaps
– a technique beloved of all of us perhaps.  
  
But I think we need to recognise however that the, as others have observed,
that the bilateral trade deals, important though they are, are of variable
quality. And there is the very real risk that smaller countries, less powerful
countries, countries which have a less compelling case to make for the time
and attention of the larger markets will be left out. So the big global trade
deals – trade deal – is absolutely critical. And we need to find the strong
political will to drive that forward.  
  
Doing so, we need I believe to be flexible, to introduce what’s been described
as a variable geometry to the global trade agenda. Meaning interested
countries can work on new and emerging trade priorities together under the
umbrella of the global system. I think this should be a priority for our
discussions next year President Xi in China, when you host the meeting, we
have no doubt that will be another successful G20 presidency.  
  
And I might say, just making an observation back to Madame Lagarde’s remarks
at the outset, while the transition in the Chinese economy is often described
as a risk to the global economy, a risk to growth, can I just observe that
from our part, who have been great beneficiaries of the investment-driven
model, probably no country a greater beneficiary of that. Can I say that we
welcome the rebalancing exercise in China. We think it is absolutely critical
both to China’s continued growth to escape that middle-income trap of which
the President speaks and also to ensure that we for our part and all of us,
have a much wider range of industries that are engaging with and trading with
China. So we welcome the rebalancing – we think it’s good for China and good
for the global economy.  
  
Finally, because I’m running short of time, let me make a couple of points
about energy. Australia is a very large energy exporter. We have been the
world’s largest coal exporter – I think our friends from Indonesia have
overtaken us in terms of thermal coal but I’m reliably informed by Dr Birol
that we’ll seize the lead again by 2020 and by 2020 we’ll also be the world’s
leading exporter of LNG.  
  
But whatever the rankings may be, Australia has a vested interest, as do the
Canadians as Mr Trudeau observed, in the energy sector. It too is in
considerable transition. Gas will become a bigger part of the energy mix. It
is a transition fuel – it’s a relatively clean fuel. And we need, as the
energy market transitions and the global economy changes, for our institutions
to reflect that. The reform of the International Energy Agency is very
important and it’s good that Fatih Birol, the director, is committed to that
as well. We had a very productive meeting with him Mr President. The IEA’s
membership should reflect the reality of the energy producers and consumers of
2015, not the 1970s.  
  
Finally, may I just observe the significance of the German Chancellor’s
remarks about distributed energy. Just as in the telecommunications fields,
mobile cellular technology overtook the need for large fixed line networks,
especially in developing countries, so too does the potential for renewable
energy, especially solar, coupled with storage. The big technological game
changer in energy is efficient cost effective storage. The progress there is
very rapid. That is a technological game changer upon which we should pay very
close attention and particularly in terms of the development economics part of
the G20’s focus.  
  
Thank you very much. And as I say, thank you very much President Erdogan for
your chairmanship of the G20 this year and President Xi, we look forward to an
equally outstanding presidency in Hangzhou next year.Well, thank you very much Charlie and thank you very much, Richard for the
very generous and warm welcome to country. And like all of our speakers, I
acknowledge that we are on Larrakia country, and I pay my respects to the
Elders both past and present and future. That line of continuity, that John
just spoke about, so welcome to Casuarina Beach [inaudible] is very real, but
you are right, I won’t have time to go there.  
  
Nonetheless, I know what you mean you brought it all alive in our hearts,
Richard and you’re welcome, so thank you, thank you very much.  
  
Can I say how really proud I am to be here today, at the Commonwealth and the
Northern Territory Government, and other supporters, Charles Darwin University
of course, have made this possible and that's very important - and that's been
because of the support of all of you. Natasha Griggs has been an enthusiastic
supporter of the University and the centre, as of course is Warren Snowdon,
who sadly is not here today. And I see my friend Nova Peris, Senator, who is
here as well.  
  
But you know, the passion of the people who work here is what really drives
it. You could see, as Alan Cass spoke about, what he is seeking to do to
address the four horsemen, though you’re mostly focussing on the renal
horsemen in our discussion today. But, your passion for making a real
difference, for the good, for Aboriginal health is just so obvious and the
work, the enthusiasm of the researchers here is so compelling.  
  
Rick Price, what you are doing in the region on malaria is equally vitally
important. And you are right that the Vietnamese, the Vietnam's President and
myself, are the Chairs of that initiative and we discussed that in Manila just
a few days, I just spoke to him yesterday in fact.  
  
So, as the Vice Chancellor said, Darwin really sits at this extremely
important and historic point between Australia and Asia. Australia is part of
Asia of course but this is such a critical point in human history. We are
living in the most exciting time in the history of human development. The pace
of change is utterly without precedent and it is most rapid here, in our
region.  
  
The changes that are going on in our region have no precedent, the rate of
change is extraordinary and so, here is Darwin, positioned as a city, as a
multicultural city, a city with a strong indigenous heritage going back tens
of thousands of years, but also city of today and tomorrow. So, perfectly
positioned. And, at the heart of all of that is science, research and, of
course, the work that you do here at the Menzies School of Health Research.
Named after John Mathews and I'm really honoured to be here to open, to
officially declare the building open.  
  
I want to just make one final observation, if I may. Alan and I had a chat
before we came down here, with the Vice Chancellor, about the importance of
securing more support for the school and the whole research program. And I
really commend that vision to you all. I think the, you know, governments
obviously have the deepest pockets, there is no doubt about that, it is always
nice when people thank governments for their generosity, you know, something
that is your money. Governments shouldn't be, it is very kind of you to thank
us but we are just doing, I think is very kind, we're just doing our jobs.
But, you know, the importance of securing support from philanthropic donors,
foundations is a very valid one and I have said to Alan that I will help him
and his colleagues here in, you know, down south and also up here as well.  
  
I think is very important, philanthropy is very important, it is extra
dollars, it doesn't buy you any more than a dollar from the government, but it
brings with it a lot of personal commitment and lasting support and advocacy,
that can be very valuable in your work. So, I am very happy to support that
too.  
  
So, can I congratulate all of you. I want to acknowledge the great success of
the Menzies School of Health Research. And can I just give you a few little
facts that I can just, it is easier for me to boast about you than for you
Alan, although you are not a man to hide your light under a bushel. But with
eight of seventeen Menzies research projects funded, it is a success rate that
far exceeds the national average of 13.7 per cent. So, this is the most
successful institution in terms of securing NHMRC support and that is a
tribute to the quality of the researchers and the scientists here.  
  
And finally, finally, you should never believe a politician when he says
finally, the other things you never believe a politician is when he says 'I
will be brief', that's always a promise that is always disappointed.  
  
I was so impressed to see the young researchers you have, the young women we
met on the way through here, you have really inspired young people as well.
You know, one of the big challenges is how can we get more young people to
study science and medicine and technology and, you know, all the STEM
subjects, and we have our young lady, from year 12, who was helping at the lab
there. And a first-year student from CDU, and I was really really impressed
with the young lady from PNG who was doing a PhD here, so terrific
collaboration in the regionally, as well as inspiring young people.  
  
So, all in all, it has been a great visit. I cannot commend you enough for the
great work you are doing and I look forward to supporting you in the future.Thank you, Mr Speaker.  
  
I seek the indulgence of the House to make a statement on the recent terrorist
attacks around the world.  
  
And I acknowledge the presence in the House of the Ambassador of France, His
Excellency Mr Christophe Lecourtier.  
  
Late on the afternoon of Friday, 13 November, Paris, the city of light, was
assaulted by godless ISIL murderers who blasphemously claimed to be killing in
the name God, who claimed to be killing in the name of Islam, but defame and
blasphemed Islam itself.  
  
One hundred and thirty citizens of France and eighteen other countries were
brutally murdered. Many more were injured, including a young Tasmanian, Emma
Parkinson – a brave young woman with whom I spoke as she recovered from her
surgery.  
  
This was a coordinated attack involving eight killers and six locations. It
was more than a lone wolf attack, but it was not an elaborately sophisticated
one. It reminds us that a few fanatics with automatic weapons and explosives
can do great damage and strike at the heart of free, open and democratic
societies. This was not just an assault on French lives and French freedoms.
It was an attack on all humanity, on all our freedoms, freedom to gather and
to celebrate, the freedom to share time with our family and friends, the
freedom to walk our streets without fear.  
  
Mr Speaker that is why, when I spoke with both President Francoise Hollande
and Foreign Minister Laurent Fabius, I conveyed not just the heartfelt
sympathy but the unwavering solidarity of all Australian people with the
people of France. We are, though, Mr Speaker, forever reminded that terrorism
is not only a problem for the West. Recently we have witnessed terrorist
attacks in the form of suicide bombings in Beirut, Ankara, Tunisia and
Nigeria. The murder of hundreds of innocent civilians in a Russian airliner
flying over the Sinai, the attack of a hotel in Bamako, Mali, and ongoing
extremist violence and killings of course in the Middle East and South Asia.  
  
I have discussed recent developments with world leaders and all are united in
our condemnation of this terrorism. We are united in our steadfast commitment
to defeating those who carry out these terrorist acts. The leaders of the
Muslim nations with whom I have met in the last week, President Widodo, the
leader of the world's largest Muslim nation, Indonesia, President Erdogan of
Turkey, Prime Minister Najib of Malaysia, have all said loudly that ISIL's
deeds and ideology defame and blaspheme Islam and are utterly contrary to the
precepts of authentic Islam. President Widodo reminded us this week past that
his own country demonstrates that Islam, democracy, diversity and tolerance
are completely compatible.  
  
President Erdogan of Turkey explained at the G20 that ISIL does not speak in
the name of Islam. It is an abomination to religion, he says, and must be
utterly rejected.  
  
Prime Minister Najib of Malaysia reminded us at the East Asia Summit that
Islam teaches that to kill one innocent life is as though to kill all
humanity.  
  
Mr Speaker, the Paris attacks – all of these attacks – highlight just how
critical it is that the international community cooperates to defeat ISIL in
the field, in its base, in Syria and Iraq.  
  
They highlight how important it is for us more effectively to counter the
messaging, the corrupting messaging of ISIL and other violent extremists in
schools, mosques and above all online. This will not be an easy fight, nor
will it be quick. But our mission to disrupt, degrade and destroy the
terrorists is making progress.  
  
A lasting defeat of ISIL will require a political settle settlement in Syria
and Iraq. There are some signs of progress in that regard, but it is very
early days. It will also require military force and Australia is second only
to the United States in our military contribution to the international efforts
in Iraq and Syria.  
  
I can reassure the Australian people that we will do everything we can to keep
Australians safe, at home, and so far as we can, abroad. There is no greater
responsibility for any government, and my Government, than Australia's
security. Our law enforcement and intelligence agencies are the finest in the
world.  
  
Mr Speaker, the leadership of Muslims around the world in condemning ISIL is
another key factor, and I want to commend the Muslim leaders – Presidents of
great nation and Presidents of community associations alike - who have spoken
out for an authentic, moderate and tolerant Islam. Extremism is a challenge
all Australians must address. Extremists aim to sow discord by driving a wedge
between Muslims a non-Muslim, dividing us as a society.  
  
We are the most successful and harmonious multicultural society in the world.
The richness of our diversity is one of our nation's greatest strengths and we
must protect and defend it dearly. The terrorists want us to bend to their
will, to be frightened, to change the way we go about our lives to abandon our
values.  
  
If we do that, they win and they will not win, we will not let them win. When
the French people left the Stade de France complex after that shocking attack,
they were not cowed. They sang ‘La Marseillaise’ proudly in one voice and that
is how all free people should respond to these assaults.  
  
Mr Speaker, to all whose lives have been touched by these evil acts of
terrorism, the Australian people send their heartfelt sympathy and unwavering
support.  
  
M. L’Ambassadeur, vous avez nos plus sinceres condoleances et notre plus forte
solidarite.When innocent people are dying at the hands of violent extremists, no matter
where in the world this is happening, hard questions are asked of societies
like our own -- hard questions for which there are no easy answers.  
  
For all freedom-loving nations, the message could not be clearer: if we want
to preserve the values that underpin our open, democratic societies, we will
have to work resolutely with each other to defend and protect the freedoms we
hold dear.  
  
Following the recent mass killings of innocent civilians in Paris and around
the world, I take this opportunity to update the House on Australia’s global,
regional and domestic policies to respond to terrorist attacks.  
  
Let me start by once again expressing my condolences to all the victims. Our
hearts go out to the families who have lost their loved ones and to those
recovering from their injuries.  
  
We should grieve and we should be angry.  
  
But we must not let grief or anger cloud our judgment. Our response must be as
clear eyed and strategic as it is determined.  
  
This is not a time for gestures or machismo.  
  
Calm, clinical, professional, effective.  
  
That’s how we defeat this menace.  
  
The threat from ISIL is a global problem that must be addressed at its source,
in the Middle East, by ensuring our involvement in coalition efforts in Syria
and Iraq is resolute and effective.  
  
ISIL aims to overthrow all the existing governments in Muslim societies, and
beyond. It regards as apostates any who will not submit to its own perverted
view of Islam.  
  
Strategically, ISIL wants to create division by fomenting resentment between
non-Muslim populations and Muslims.  
  
ISIL emerged as an extremist, terrorist group out of Al Qaeda in Iraq and
Syria. Their territorial gains in Syria and Iraq have fed into their narrative
of conquest.  
  
By most measures, however, ISIL is in a fundamentally weak position.  
  
We must not be fooled by its hype. Its ideology is archaic, but its use of the
Internet is very modern. ISIL has many more smartphones than guns, more
twitter accounts than fighters.  
  
It does not command broad-based legitimacy even in those areas under its
direct control. It is encircled by hostile forces. It is under military
pressure.  
  
And, through its depraved actions, ISIL has strengthened the resolve of the
global community, including Russia, to defeat it.  
  
The 60 nation-strong coalition’s objective is to disrupt, degrade and
ultimately to defeat ISIL. This will require a patient, painstaking full
spectrum strategy. Not just military, but financial, diplomatic and political.  
  
This involves a combination of air strikes in both Syria and Iraq and support
and training for Iraq’s army.  
  
Australia’s contribution to coalition forces on the ground in Iraq is second
only to that of the United States and large relative to our population and
proximity to the conflict.  
  
Larger, for example, than any European nation, larger than Canada or any of
the neighbouring Arab States.  
  
We have six FA-18s involved in missions in that theatre, with 240 personnel in
the air task group, 90 special forces advisers, and around 300 soldiers
training the Iraqi army at Taji.  
  
The special forces are authorised by our Government to advise and assist
Iraq’s Counter-Terrorism Service in the field at headquarters level.  
  
However the Government of Iraq has not consented to any of our defence forces
being deployed outside the wire on ground combat operations.  
  
The Government of Iraq believes that large scale Western troop operations in
its country would be counterproductive.  
  
Australia’s servicemen and women are making a significant contribution to the
Coalition campaign and we will continue to support our allies as our
strategies evolve in what is likely to be an extended campaign.  
  
In Iraq, ISIL’s momentum has been halted.  
  
Its capabilities degraded.  
  
Kurdish and Iraqi forces have won back territory with coalition support.  
  
I have to report to the House that the consensus of the leaders I met at the
G20, at APEC and at the East Asia Summit is that there is no support currently
for a large US-led Western army to attempt to conquer and hold ISIL-controlled
areas.  
  
In Syria, the broader conflict and the absence of a central government that
the West can work with makes action against ISIL even more complicated.  
  
Following the destruction of the Russian airliner over the Sinai and the Paris
attack, Russia and France have raised their operational tempo against ISIL.  
  
Ultimately a political solution is needed in Syria. Only this would allow
attention to turn more fully to eliminating ISIL as a military force. We
support the negotiations in Vienna to find a pathway to a political resolution
in Syria.  
  
Under the circumstances I have outlined, and mindful that Australia has a
range of security priorities across the globe and in our own region, there are
currently no plans for a significant change in the level or the nature of
Australia’s military commitment in Iraq and Syria.  
  
No such change has been sought by our allies - if one were we would of course
carefully consider it.  
  
We will always proceed on the basis of the considered advice of our military
professionals in the Australian Defence Force, just as we rely on the advice
of our counter-terrorism experts domestically.  
  
Current advice to the Government is that the unilateral deployment of
Australian combat troops on the ground in Iraq or Syria is not feasible or
practical.  
  
As a supplement to our already significant military commitment, our interests
– and those of the countries and people in the region – are served by
supporting stability in countries neighbouring Iraq and Syria, particularly
Jordan. We will continue to look for ways to further strengthen cooperation
with Jordan.  
  
The rise of ISIL and the conflict in Syria have increased the threat
environment in Southeast Asia. I have discussed this issue at the East Asia
Summit and in depth with the leaders of Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines
and Singapore.  
  
We are working more closely than ever to share intelligence and counter
messaging strategies.  
  
From an Australian perspective, we see a real risk that terrorist groups in
the region might be inspired by attacks such as we have seen in Ankara,
Beirut, Bamako and Paris and we are very mindful of the fact that hundreds of
thousands of Australians visit Southeast Asia every year, for business, study
or holidays.  
  
Just as Australia cannot fight any military conflict against ISIL
unilaterally, we cannot counter violent extremism alone, particularly online.
In my recent discussions with regional colleagues at the East Asia Summit and
APEC I further committed Australia as a leading partner in this area.  
  
We look forward to supporting the new Malaysian counter messaging centre and
to further cooperation with Indonesia, beginning with the Attorney-General and
Minister for Justice, who is also the Minister assisting me on Counter
Terrorism, shortly taking up an offer to visit Indonesia in December to hold
discussions focused on furthering our countering terrorism and violent
extremism efforts in the region.  
  
The Paris attacks demonstrate ISIL has an ability to launch concerted attacks
in Western cities. It was also a reminder that, while coordinated, there is
not much sophisticated planning required for armed fanatics to slaughter
unarmed civilians with military assault rifles and suicide vests.  
  
As Prime Minister, and speaking on behalf of the heads of ASIO and the AFP, as
well as the Chief of the Defence Force, I want Australians to be aware that a
terrorist incident on our soil remains likely but also that Australians should
be reassured our security agencies are working diligently and expertly to
prevent that happening.  
  
In addition to being the most successful multicultural society in the world,
Australia, as an island continent, has some natural advantages over Europe,
which is currently facing the uncontrolled movement of hundreds of thousands
of people.  
  
Unlike the Europeans we are in control of our borders. For example, people who
successfully enter Greece are moving at will throughout much of the EU.  
  
We are an island nation. The people smugglers’ business model has been broken.
The boats have been stopped.  
  
We also have very strong gun laws that make access to weapons more difficult
and play a vital role in keeping our public safe.  
  
As your Prime Minister my highest duty, and that of my government, is to keep
Australians safe.  
  
We cannot eliminate entirely the risk of terrorism any more than we can
eliminate the risk of any serious crime. But we can mitigate it. We will
continue to thwart and frustrate many attacks before they occur.  
  
We are examining closely the implications of the Paris attacks for our own
domestic arrangements. I am receiving updated intelligence on this every day.
We are working more closely than ever with our European partners.  
  
Public safety is the highest priority. And a major part of this is to be as
open and transparent with Australians as possible about both the threat and
what everyone can do to help.  
  
In September last year, the alert level was raised to HIGH, and it has
remained there ever since. We have subsequently seen terror attacks against
police officers in Melbourne, the Sydney Siege and the murder of a police
worker in Parramatta by a radicalised young man.  
  
The tempo of our domestic counter terrorism efforts has increased and our
capabilities have been tested. Since September 2014, 26 people have been
charged as a result of 10 counter terrorism operations around Australia.
That’s more than one-third of all terrorism related charges since 2001.
Counter Terrorism Units at our airports are also stopping people leaving for,
and returning from, the conflict zone.  
  
The fact that there has to date been no mass casualty attack owes much to the
vigilance of our security agencies.  
  
ASIO and the Federal Police have advised me that there is no evidence that the
recent attacks, including Paris, will materially affect the threat level in
Australia but we are constantly on watch for any evolving or emerging threats.  
  
The Council of Australian Governments agreed in July to develop a new threat
advisory system to make it clearer to the public what our security experts
believe to be the current threat from terrorism.  
  
The new framework, recommended by ASIO, has been subject to extensive
consultation and review.  
  
I can inform the House that the National Threat Assessment Centre (or NTAC)
that sits within ASIO will this week transition to the new National Terrorism
Threat Advisory System.  
  
The new system will provide the public with more information on the nature of
the threat we are facing. The adoption of a five-tiered threat system will
also provide ASIO with greater flexibility in determining threat levels,
reflecting the need to adapt to an evolving security environment.  
  
Rapid developments in communications technology present both opportunities and
challenges for our agencies; modern messaging and voice applications are
generally encrypted in transit. Human intelligence, relationships with
communities, are more important than ever.  
  
I have therefore asked that ASIO and other relevant agencies work with our
international intelligence partners to address the challenge of monitoring
terrorist groups in this new environment.  
  
I will be meeting with my State and Territory colleagues next month. Co-
operation between all tiers of government and state and federal agencies is
vital in the counter-terrorism effort.  
  
At COAG on December 11, I will continue our discussions with Premiers on how
to best counter violent extremism. I will raise with them initiatives under
consideration to address the problem of radicalisation in prisons.  
  
I have also asked that our law enforcement agencies test their responses to a
mass casualty attack. Such an attack leaves little, if any, room for
negotiation.  
  
This work is in addition to the extensive reform of our national security laws
which has already seen the introduction of five tranches of legislation. These
laws ensure our agencies have all the tools required in the effort to keep us
safe.  
  
Within Australia, our Counter-Terrorism Strategy calls for partnerships
between all levels of government, community and the private sector.  
  
It emphasises the need to limit the spread and influence of violent extremist
ideas.  
  
The root cause of the current threat we face is a perverted strain of Islamist
extremist ideology. Not all extremism ends in violence but all politically
motivated violence begins with extremist ideology.  
  
Any war with ISIL is not just one in a military sense, but also a war of
ideas. Through their extensive use of social media, they seek the maximum
propaganda advantage from any territorial gains as cover for their fundamental
military weakness and the barbaric nature of their mindset.  
  
The Government’s investment in Countering Violent Extremism programs has
tripled over the past four years to more than $40 million.  
  
The Government’s approach has four tiers:  
  
Importantly, governments cannot win this battle alone. Community leaders and
groups have great responsibility both in denouncing violent extremism and
teaching unity in diversity, mutual respect instead of hatred.  
  
The condemnation of ISIL and the promotion of authentic, modern and tolerant
Islam by the leaders of big majority Muslim nations - including Indonesia,
Turkey and Malaysia - has been especially important.  
  
To this end, I thank all those Muslim groups and leaders who made statements
denouncing the Paris attacks.  
  
A strong and trusting relationship between the government and communities is
crucial to ensuring the right messages reach the hearts and minds of those who
might be vulnerable to the propaganda of terror groups.  
  
Part of the message is promoting the truth that Australia not only does its
part in the military coalition to defeat ISIL but in the humanitarian cause.  
  
Australia has committed to accepting over four years an additional 12,000
people who have fled the conflicts in Syria and Iraq. Australia has also
provided around $230 million in humanitarian assistance since 2011 to support
Syrians and Iraqis affected by the conflict.  
  
This is a significant humanitarian initiative by Australians. We have one of
the strongest records of any nation for resettling people facing persecution
in their homelands. Since the end of World War Two, Australia has resettled
more than 825,000 refugees and others in humanitarian need.  
  
The focus of the 12,000 intake of Syrian and Iraqi refugees is on persecuted
minorities and those assessed as being most vulnerable - women, children and
families with the least prospect of returning to their homes.  
  
All applications are rigorously assessed on an individual basis – in line with
Australia’s existing refugee and humanitarian policies.  
  
Our national security interest is always the first and abiding priority.  
  
Strict security, health and character checks will not be compromised.  
  
In Iraq and Syria, ISIL must be defeated militarily - enabled by a durable
political settlement in both countries that will reduce the capacity of the
extremists to recruit and mobilise.  
  
The threat of ISIL-inspired terrorism must be addressed through domestic,
regional and global counter-terrorism efforts; as an ideological threat, it
needs to be confronted globally.  
  
There are no quick fixes.  
  
We will redouble our efforts in support of domestic and regional counter-
terrorism efforts.  
  
Across the region, our engagement will intensify, pursuing collective counter-
terrorism objectives by better prioritising and coordinating with regional
partners.  
  
We will defeat these terrorists.  
  
And the strongest weapons we bring to this battle are ourselves, our values,
our way of life.  
  
Our unity mocks their attempts to divide us.  
  
Our freedom under law mocks their cruel tyranny.  
  
Our mutual respect mocks their bitter intolerance.  
  
And the strength of our free people will see off these thugs and tyrants as it
has seen off so many of their kind before.Thank you very much Laurie, Neil, Bill and Christian Porter, standing in for
Michaelia Cash. And can I just say that Michaelia Cash’s leadership on this
issue has been outstanding. And it is wonderful to see so many of my other
colleagues here, and of course, representatives of the media as well.  
  
We are here today to take a stand against violence against women and children.
It is a vital stand.  
  
Now, this year, we have seen a very significant shift in the way domestic
violence has been reported in Australia. In large part due to our Australian
of the Year, Rosie Batty, and many other dedicated advocates, including Anne,
the issue is well and truly on our national agenda.  
  
Much of the discourse, as Christian has said, has been driven by the media
which has taken up the cause of domestic violence and been powerful advocates
on behalf of the victims.  
  
It was only a few short months ago that I sat around the table with Senator
Cash and many of you, media representatives, to discuss the important role you
play in responsibly reporting family violence in this country.  
  
By giving a voice to victims, the media has shone a light on what previously
happened behind closed doors and was considered a private problem.  
  
Even the term domestic violence, which has become the accepted term, is one
that I know we all have reservations about because the fact is it is violence.
The fact that it occurs within a relationship makes it no less violence than
violence that occurs on the streets. And it has to be seen for what it is - a
crime that must be stamped out as surely as we prosecute violence that occurs
in the streets and anywhere else in the country.  
  
Now the media has a very powerful role in helping shape the language we use
about women, our attitudes towards them and the messages that young people
receive about gender.  
  
Let me say this to you - not all disrespect of women ends up in violence
against women, but all violence against women begins with disrespecting women.  
  
The most, the single most important thing each and every one of us can do as
parents especially - as fathers, and as mothers - is to make sure that our
sons respect their mothers and their sisters.  
  
So much of this starts young and it is so encouraging today to see the
programs that are operating in our schools, to promote respect for each other
and respect for women.  
  
If we do that, we will build up a set of attitudes, a culture that does not
accept, that rejects this disrespect of women which, clearly not invariably,
in most cases does not lead to violence against women. But all violence
against women begins with disrespect of women. That's a fact. We all know
that.  
  
And so we have to remember that as our attitudes towards women have to be
absolutely critically examined in the context of this vital issue.  
  
Now, through our watch, the Government has funded the development of
principles to help the media when it reports on domestic violence.  
  
The principles ensure the media play a constructive role by avoiding victim
blaming, it's never the victim's fault, protecting the safety of survivors and
avoiding trivialising or sensationalising incidents of domestic violence.  
  
Tomorrow marks the International Day for the Elimination of Violence Against
Women and we'll be releasing new research that paints a disturbing picture
about what many Australians think about domestic violence.  
  
It tells us that far too many people excuse, diminish and blame the victim
when it comes to violence against women. Now that is utterly unacceptable.  
  
These attitudes have to change. These are big cultural changes we need to
effect.  
  
Now you, the media, play a critical leadership role in challenging and shaping
the community attitudes that exist in order to break the cycle.  
  
So now, today, is the time to capitalise on the momentum we've built this year
and shift our conversation into the next gear. We need your help to do it.  
  
I want to congratulate you all for your commitment to this vitally important
campaign.  
  
Thank you very much.Thank you for the commitment of the men and women who work in the building and
in the surrounds to this absolutely critical national cause. Our leaders and
deputy leaders of our parties are represented, the Speaker is here, all of my
parliamentary colleagues I want to acknowledge and welcome.  
  
The Chief of the Defence Force and many other of our Defence leaders are here
too, as you said.  
  
Let there be no doubt, what we need in Australia today, is significant
cultural change.  
  
Violence against women is the end point of disrespecting women.  
  
Now, not all disrespect of women ends up in violence but all violence against
women begins there.  
  
So, one of the most critical things all of us can do, and I am channelling my
wife Lucy who is the first person I heard to make this point so emphatically
in a public place, but one of the most important things we must do as parents
and indeed as grandparents is to ensure that our sons and our grandsons
respect their sisters and mothers and their grandmothers.  
  
In other words, if we set the cultural environment right at the outset, men
respecting women, when they are little boys, and that is the example we give
them, they will respect them through the rest of their lives. This is such an
important, such an important objective.  
  
And, I'm so thrilled to see in so many schools, White Ribbon programs are
under way so that we're getting, you know, kids and in this context little
boys and making sure that they respect the girls, the women in their lives.  
  
And so every husband, every man that respects his wife, his partner, sets an
example for the young males in their lives. That is absolutely critically
important. We can genuinely change the culture.  
  
Now, later today we will be releasing some research which tells us, as a
sobering reminder, of what Australians actually think, or many Australians
think about violence against women. It is a big wake up call for the need for
real change. Even the term domestic violence, which I know is sort of in the
lexicon, it's hard to extirpate now, even that is a problem, because it
creates the impression that somehow or other, domestic violence is less
significant than violence in the street.  
  
But violence against women is a crime. It doesn't matter what the environment
in which it occurs is. It is a crime and has to be treated as such.  
  
But on this day, I want to pay a special tribute to the victims of domestic
violence, past and present, who have borne the burden of our failure to act
for too long. To every child who has lost a mother, every mother who has lost
a child, for the lost daughters, sisters, aunts and friends, and for those who
are suffering right now, this is your day too.  
  
It's the day we talk about your courage, your pain, your sacrifice, and it's
the day that we recommit, as Ken said, as men to ending domestic violence, to
ending violence against women.  
  
Yesterday we met with Dr Ann O'Neill, a truly inspirational survivor of
domestic violence. She told us how her husband, estranged husband, broke into
her home, shooting her and killing her two children, before turning the gun on
himself. Ann was the only survivor.  
  
And she told us that the most common question she was asked after this
horrendous tragedy was, what did you do to make him do that?  
  
The grief that that caused, her tragedy is a frightening reminder that too
often we blame the victims and excuse the men and minimise the severity of the
violence.  
  
So yesterday we had another meeting with the media and there is a real
cultural change which is very important - to make sure that they report
violence against women, stories about violence against women, domestic
violence in a way that does not blame the victims, in a way that promotes
cultural change.  
  
Now, the Government is, and I think all parties here, all Members and Senators
here are totally committed to this cultural change, I know that.  
  
One of the first actions of my government was to announce the funding of $100
million for a women's safety package and Ken referred to that earlier, to
address the immediate needs of women who fear for their lives.  
  
I would note, with respect to Tony Warren and our sponsor Telstra, that part
of that was to support the provision of smart phones and the digital
technology to enable women to be safe and to seek help.  
  
So the answer lies within all of us men to make this change. We have to lead
by example and the most important place to lead by example is with our
children and our grandchildren. I cannot emphasise the importance of that too
much.  
  
If little boys see their fathers disrespecting their mothers, they will grow
up to disrespect their partners. If they see their mothers respected, they
will respect their sisters.  
  
All of us as men, as fathers and grandfathers, as leaders, as teachers, as
commanders in the armed forces, as secretaries in the public service, as
members of parliament, all of us men are role models and all of us, in our own
way, can effect and must effect this cultural change.  
  
As I said, the critical insight into this is that not all disrespect of women
ends up in violence against women, but that is where all violence against
women begins.  
  
And so at the root of this is respect for women. Teaching our children, all of
us, respect is absolutely critical. And of course it goes right across the way
our society prospers, the glue that holds this, the most successful
multicultural society in the world together. The thing that makes us
harmonious is mutual respect - absolutely critical.  
  
So that's what we need to practice, we need to practice that as an example in
our public lives and in our private lives alike.  
  
So here on White Ribbon Day, we recommit to end violence against women, to
support the victims of violence, but above all to work together to effect this
critical cultural change for the protection of the women of Australia and of
all of us.  
  
Thank you very much.Check against delivery*  
  
Mr President, Secretary General, Excellencies, distinguished delegates, ladies
and gentlemen.  
  
From Australia we come with confidence and optimism.  
  
We are not daunted by our challenge.  
  
It inspires us. It energises us.  
  
We do not doubt the implications of the science, or the scale of the
challenge.  
  
But above all we do not doubt the capacity of humanity to meet it - with
imagination, innovation and the prudence that befits those, like us, who make
decisions that will affect not just our own children and grandchildren but
generations yet unborn.  
  
And Mr President while we come to you in Paris with our deepest condolences,
we bring you the most resolute solidarity in our common cause for freedom in
the face of terrorism.  
  
Here in Paris Australia supports a new – and truly global – climate agreement.  
  
It is an agreement that must drive humanity’s capacity for inventiveness and a
new wave of technological advances.  
  
Good for our environment, good for our economies.  
  
I join over 150 leaders in calling for a strong and effective agreement.  
  
And over 180 countries have now announced post-2020 targets.  
  
This is an extraordinary effort.  
  
For Australia’s part, our 2030 target represents real economic effort, and
will halve our per capita emissions – one of the biggest reductions of any G20
country.  
  
We will meet and beat our 2020 emissions reduction target.  
  
Today I announce that Australia will ratify the second commitment period of
the Kyoto Protocol.  
  
We firmly believe that it is innovation and technology which will enable us
both to drive stronger economic growth and a cleaner environment.  
  
We are a highly social and innovative species and so the more we share
innovative technologies, the better they will become.  
  
Today Australia joins with many other countries in supporting Mission
Innovation which aims to double investment in clean energy innovation over the
next five years.  
  
Australian universities are at the forefront of energy and climate science
innovation.  
  
To give one example, the University of New South Wales has held the world
record for solar cell efficiency for 30 of the last 32 years.  
  
And by 2018 over 60 per cent of the world’s solar cells are to use technology
developed by Australian researchers.  
  
But our task, and that of the technologies we deploy, is not just to reduce
emissions.  
  
The impacts of global warming are already being felt and will continue to be
so even after we reach global net zero emissions.  
  
Adaption to the impacts of climate change is equally important and there too
innovation is a key.  
  
Some of the most vulnerable nations are our Pacific neighbours and we are
helping them to build resilience through practical action and assistance.  
  
To this end, Australia will contribute at least $1 billion over the next five
years from our existing aid budget both to build climate resilience and reduce
emissions.  
  
Our agreement here in Paris must provide a common platform for action, the
dynamism to build ambition and a robust and transparent reporting system.  
  
Australia is not daunted by the challenge. With great optimism and faith in
humanity’s genius for invention, we are confident that with your leadership,
Mr President, we will, in common cause, secure our future.Thank you Alan very much for your warm welcome, and Gerard, and Andrew Barr
the ACT Chief Minister and everyone gathered here for this very special night.
Lucy and I are delighted to be here.  
  
It is wonderful to open the Tom Roberts Exhibition. Tom Roberts of course was
one of the great painters of the Heidelberg School along with Fred McCubbin,
Arthur Streeton and Charles Edward Conder among others. They, in some
respects, actually imagined Australian art. They were dealing with a culture
and a country that had not really reflected on its own identity before.  
  
If you think of the United States, so many of the colonists, European
colonists, came there self-consciously or very consciously to create a new
world. They were pilgrims they were fleeing persecution. They were seeking to
create some kind of Utopia.  
  
Australians came here with different motives. Some came unwillingly. All of
Lucy and I’s Victorian friends remind us that everyone in Sydney is descended
from convicts. Our repost of course, is to remind them that Melbourne of
course is a Tasmanian colony. As for the ‘bush capital’ as Andrew Barr says,
“it’s the coolest little capital in the world,” and I think that’s fantastic.
It certainly feels that way when I ride my bike around the lake in the winter.  
  
So, Roberts opened the eyes of his contemporaries to the real beauty of our
Australian landscape and above all to the light. It was obviously a very, very
different light to that of Northern Europe and England in particular. More
Italian but thoroughly un-English in that respect.  
  
He helped create, as I mentioned earlier something of the Arcadian myth that
Russel Ward wrote about years ago, the bush legend. That Arcadian myth - the
Australian-ness being epitomised with the bush that the poets wrote about. Of
course, it has always been somewhat of a myth because we have been right from
the foundation a highly urbanised society. It’s really only places like
Singapore that are more urbanised than Australia. But something that is alive
in the imagination is just as real. This is what the Australian artists
whether they were poets or painters appropriated.  
  
Of course some of his best loved works here, we’ve mentioned some of them,
Coming South, Bailed Up, Shearing the Rams, Bourke Street West, showing
ordinary Australians working the land going about their lives. His fantastic
painting of Coogee which is not quiet in my electorate, but just to the south
of it.  
  
You never know some year there will be a redistribution. We could move south.
Not in the current one.  
  
But a beautiful painting and there’s that wonderful painting called Sydney
Harbour from Milson’s Point and the seaman’s hospital or home is still visible
on the rock side and the outline of customs house, other than that everything
is different. In fact it shows the old gun battery at Dawe’s Point which of
course has been, since the 1930s, been covered by the foundation of the
bridge.  
  
But the big political painting here is what you would call the big picture, or
more grandly and accurately, the opening of the first Parliament of the
Commonwealth of Australia by His Royal Highness the Duke of Cornwell and York
on the 9th of May 1901. Now, I gather he paid a thousand guineas for it plus
an extra guinea for every individual portrait he painted and the director
showing that the real incentives for artistic expression are not just
aesthetic he painted 269 individual portraits.  
  
The painting was presented to King Edward the XII and was hung in St James
Palace for many years and when it returned home a dedicated space was
allocated in the very heart of the new Parliament House building, as I am sure
you will know, in the foyer of the main committee room.  
  
That’s why this is not just exhibition of important works by one of our great
artists it’s a reflection of who we are, where we have come from, where we
have imagined we have come from. A way of life that in many ways is gone, but
which is alive still in our sense of identity. It has contributed so much to
our national character.  
  
He and his colleagues in that Heidelberg School and of course the poets as
well, didn’t just record or portray Australia, in many ways they imagined it
and of course they made it real.  
  
So I want to thank everyone that made this exhibition possible. I want to
acknowledge the generosity of a number of you here today.  
  
Philanthropy in the arts is absolutely vital. Some of you may have heard me
say this before, but it is worth repeating. A dollar from a generous
benefactor and a dollar from the Government buys you exactly the same amount.
You don’t get any more with that philanthropic dollar. But that philanthropic
dollar comes to you not via the dim eyelids of the Expenditure Review
Committee of Cabinet, it comes to you with passion, love and advocacy.  
  
I want to acknowledge the generosity of Krystyna Campbell-Pretty, Alan and
Mavourneen Cowen, and Kerry and Christine Stokes who have helped the National
Gallery secure the recent purchase of Tom Roberts’ never-before-seen portrait
of his friend Louis Abrahams. I understand that Ms Campbell-Pretty’s donation
is in memory of Harold - can I say, what a lovely tribute to your late
husband.  
  
This is the first time that the portrait has left the Abrahams family since
Roberts gave it to Louis. This is a genuine coup for the national collection.
The gallery’s major re-hang, which coincides with the Tom Roberts exhibition,
is also timely, especially as it brings a greater focus to the Australian
collection.  
  
And we have much of which to be proud— the Indigenous art that links us to our
ancient history, and of which we were reminded in the Chairman’s and
Director’s acknowledgment to country, and works by artists, like Tom Roberts,
show the next part of our journey as a nation.  
  
Congratulations to the staff of the National Gallery - our national collection
has never looked better, and I urge everybody to visit the gallery and see for
themselves. It belongs to you. So with great pleasure I declare the Tom
Roberts exhibition open.  
  
Thank you.Thank you for the very kind introduction. Lucy and I are thrilled to be here.  
  
I'm sorry Louise you regard this as grungy, of course, it’s hard for us to
compete here in Sydney with marvelous Melbourne, but we do our best.  
  
Interestingly, I was thinking about Melbourne and Sydney today, we had the
first meeting of the Advisory Council on Constitutional Recognition of
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders in the Constitution. Sixteen
Australians, half of them Indigenous, half of them men, half of them women. A
very distinguished group. And we started off, obviously, talking about history
and we started off with a Welcome to Country by Yvonne the Chairman of the
Metropolitan Land Council, here in Sydney.  
  
And, it reminded me of one of the big differences between Sydney and
Melbourne. I mean, Melbourne of course, Sydney was established as a British
colony, Melbourne, was of course established in 1835 as a Tasmanian colony.
And one of the big differences is that, financed by Indian capital too
actually, settlers from Launceston financed by an Indian bank. James Boyce set
that all out very well in his book 1835.  
  
But, one of the interesting things about the two cities is that each of them
carry with them, each of those places are heavy with the spirit of the
Aboriginal people, the Eora nation in the Sydney area, the Kulin nation in the
Port Phillip Bay area, who had inhabited those lands, where the two great
cities reside for [inaudible] tens of thousands of years.  
  
But, the interesting difference of course is that Melbourne, because of its
topography is almost entirely the creation of the people that came there after
1835. The course of the river was altered, the parks were landscaped, the
built environment was built. And it is a jewel, it is a jewel of the city.
But, quite a remarkable city.  
  
And yet, Sydney, on the other hand, while it has been a city for longer,
nonetheless, the natural landscape totally dominates — the harbour, the
headlands, the big cliffs, the islands in the harbour. All of that dominates.
The view, the imagination, the perception.  
  
And, it was interesting, as I looked down at the harbour and out at the city,
and reflecting on Lucy's work, Lucy wrote a great work, a history of Sydney,
some years ago. She wrote about the view of Sydney, the view of Port Jackson,
that was seen by the first settlers as they came in and one headland after
another unfolded. And, so many of those views are still there.  
  
Interestingly, the landscape is somewhat more overgrown than it used to be.
The Aboriginal inhabitants of Sydney were very good farmers, fire stick
farmers. They deliberately kept the undergrowth burnt away so that it
resembled, as Watkin Tench observed, something more like a series of paths,
big trees and lots of pasture. And that was done quite deliberately to
encourage the kangaroos and the other game the Aboriginals hunted.  
  
So, here we are. In Sydney and Melbourne, two great cultural centres. The
spirit, the memory, the Eora nation here, the spirit, the memory of the Kulin
nation in and around Port Phillip. And yet, it is simply because of the
dominance of our topography, the great fortune we have, those scenes, those
vistas, the things that were seen, the cliffs under which the Gadigal people
fish are still there. The headlands which they looked out across the waters
are still there, just as they were, a little bit more overgrown in some
respects. And of course, in some other areas, a bit more overbuilt. Just as
they were in 1788.  
  
You know, all of us live partly in the here and now, but in large part, in a
world of imagination. The world of our imagination or perception is one that
is created by artists -is created by writers and celebrated in books. Tonight,
it's created of course by visual artists and other artists as well.  
  
Our whole perception of Australia is a work in large part of literature. The
Bush myth, the image of Australia as rugged outback frontiersmen. We have
always been a highly urbanised nation. We have always, as Banjo Patterson
wrote, been dreaming of Clancy of the Overflow. There have been many more of
us as clerks in cities, listening to the traffic, as Patterson described,
rather than actually chasing cattle along the rivers of Western Queensland.
And that world of the imagination is as real as the here and now. It is as
real as these fine pillars. And that world is created by our writers.  
  
So it is correct, it is good that there is a Prime Minister's award, it is
good that we are here to celebrate our literature. It is good that we
encourage our writers, heaven knows, many of us here have written books, some
of us have written quite a few.  
  
I think everyone who has ever written a book knows about halfway through it
you become completely and utterly bored with it and you think to yourself,
'how can I ever get to the end'. Then you require some sort of new shot of
adrenaline or confidence, often, it is poverty, the need to get paid.  
  
I can remember once giving a speech at one of your competitors annual dinners,
Louise, in which I talked about freedoms, important freedoms. I talked about
freedom of speech, freedom of religion, freedom of assembly and I said that in
the world of literature, the most important freedom is the freedom of the
author never to have to return an advance. But that didn't go down very well
with the publishers, but a few of the authors liked it.  
  
That commitment, that often very solitary commitment of the writer is so
worthy of commendation, so worthy of encouragement. Because, we ask a lot of
our writers, don't we? We ask them to be so empathetic, to be so plugged in,
and so engaged that they understand our lives, our country, our imagination
better than we do ourselves. We ask them to be the most convivial and
understanding publican, if you like, and at the same time, we expect them to
lock themselves up for hours, for days, for years sometimes, to write away, to
create that work of art which they can only do by themselves.  
  
So, it is good to be here to celebrate our writers. Books will never go out of
fashion. Louise, I think even if territorial copyright were to crumble, even
if it were to crumble, authors in Australia will be able to stand up on their
merits, their works are seen across the world and across the ages. And I'm
very proud to be your Prime Minister, to be here tonight to present these
awards.  
  
Thank you very much  
  
Ladies and Gentleman,  
  
The close friendship between Japan and Australia has grown stronger with every
year.  
  
And it was, of course, Prime Minister Abe’s grandfather who paved the way for
our modern relationship.  
  
Prime Minister Kishi was the first Japanese leader to visit Australia, when he
negotiated the Japan-Australia Commerce Treaty with Australia’s Prime Minister
Robert Menzies.  
  
These two leaders showed courage, and vision, to bind up the wounds of history
and lay the foundations of trust which enabled the great iron ore mines of the
Pilbara, and the coal mines of Queensland to provide the energy and steel
which created modern Japan.  
  
By the late 1960s Japan had become Australia’s largest export market, a status
it held for more than 40 years.  
  
And while the economic bond is now so well established that it can seem like
old news, it’s worth noting that in the decade to 2014 the value of Australian
exports to Japan doubled to $50.4 billion.  
  
Australia remains key to fuelling the Japanese economy, supplying nearly two-
thirds of its coal, three-fifths of its iron ore and one-fifth of its LNG,
with LNG projected to rise to a two-fifths share in the next few years.  
  
And I believe Japan’s commitment to innovation and technology can continue to
inform and inspire the next chapter of the Australian economic story, as we
transition from a resources boom, a resources investment boom, construction
boom, to the Ideas Boom. To the era where the economy, all of our economies
are founded on innovation on the most valuable capital, our human capital.  
  
But first I want to emphasise the breadth of Australia’s partnership with
Japan.  
  
In 1976 Australia and Japan signed what has become known as the Nara Treaty -
the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation - dedicating our two nations to
‘enduring peace and friendship’.  
  
That commitment has not wavered in forty years.  
  
Our shared values and common interests led Prime Minister Abe and Prime
Minister Howard to sign the Australia-Japan Joint Declaration on Security
Cooperation, in 2007.  
  
In my first meeting with Prime Minister Abe - at the G20 held in Turkey, in
the shadow of the terrorist attacks in Paris - we discussed and confirmed our
shared commitment to democracy, freedom, the rule of law, and human rights.  
  
We recognised then, as we do today, that here in the Western Pacific we have
seen the most rapid economic growth in human history. Today, already, half of
the world’s middle class live here - in our region.  
  
Our prosperity - Australia’s, Japan’s and all the countries in our region -
depends on the continued maintenance of peace and harmonious relations which
in turn is founded on a commitment to and compliance with the rules-based
international order.  
  
Every nation, every citizen, has benefited from this long period of relative
tranquility. Some nations have grown faster than others. But all have
prospered including our own.  
  
Any actions, regardless of their motivations, which add to tensions, which
disturb that harmony, will damage all our economies.  
  
In this light, in Australia we have been heartened to see the leaders of
Japan, China and the Republic of Korea recently meeting to build stronger
bonds of trust and security.  
  
Bilaterally, the Australian Defence Forces and Japan’s Self Defence Forces
have worked together in providing humanitarian relief in the aftermath of
devastating cyclones Haiyan and Pam in the Pacific.  
  
Australia helped transport Japanese peacekeepers to Sudan in 2013.  
  
And this year, for the first time, Japan joined Australia and the United
States for joint exercises in Operation Talisman Sabre.  
  
In September Australia welcomed the passage of Japan’s peace and security
legislation.  
  
And just last week Australian, Japanese and United States participated
together in Operation Christmas Drop in the Pacific, bringing toys, food,
clothing and educational material to remotes islands in the Pacific.  
  
Prime Minister Abe was right when he told our Parliament last year that our
two nations should walk forward together with ‘no limit’.  
  
I look forward to strengthening our special strategic partnership in our
conversations today.  
  
But we also have differences. Australians were deeply disappointed to learn
that Japan had resumed whaling in the Southern Ocean this year. The whaling
issue is one of the very few cross currents in an otherwise entirely positive
and mutually beneficial relationship.  
  
But it is a sign of the strength and maturity of our partnership that we can
talk about concerns like this frankly and respectfully as good friends should.  
  
Ten days ago I launched a National Innovation and Science Agenda which is
designed to ensure Australia’s successfully transitions from the resources
boom to the ideas boom - based on our best resource, limited only by our
imagination and commitment, the intellects and enterprise and imagination of
24 million Australians.  
  
This is a very auspicious context in which to visit Tokyo.  
  
Japanese firms are renowned for driving continuous improvements in
manufacturing and production, constantly refining and improving processes and
operations.  
  
After meeting with the leading chief executives this morning, and just a few
minutes ago, I can see why Japan is home to 40 of the world's top 100 most
innovative companies, more than any other nation, according to the latest
survey by Thomson Reuters.  
  
And after touring the innovation museum Miraikan [Mee-rai-kaan] with the
teacher, scientist and astronaut Mamoru Mohri, I can see why Japan’s patent
output as a share of GDP is the highest in the OECD.  
  
I also had the memorable experience of shaking hands with ASIMO, one of the
most advanced robots ever created. I took a cell phone, a selfie of myself and
ASIMO, and he seemed not at all upset about it, he seemed very welcoming. A
very charming and courteous robot indicating the great courtesy that you’d
expect from any 14 Japanese boy - which is apparently his age.  
  
Anyway, Japanese robotic technology is being combined on a larger scale with
the imaginative leadership of great Australian companies to push the frontiers
of innovation.  
  
At a lunch recently I sat next to the head of Rio Tinto’s iron ore division,
Andrew Harding, who told me how his company has been working with Komatsu to
build the world’s largest fleet of autonomous trucks.  
  
The navigation systems on these trucks are so precise - that they are
outperforming their conventional, manned, counterparts by 12 per cent.  
  
Rio Tinto has also deployed autonomous drills that have cut costs by 8 per
cent. Next year, they’ll complete an automation retrofit of 190 locomotives.
These freight trains, each with three locomotive engines, 2.4 km long, will be
the largest and heaviest robots in the world.  
  
Elsewhere, grain farmers in New South Wales are trialling a self-steering
tractor, controlled by Japan’s Quasi-Zenith Satellite System.  
  
Australian and Japanese defence technology organisations are working together
to model marine hydrodynamics.  
  
And our universities have hundreds of research partnership agreements,
including new ones we signed just today, while more than 1000 students have
come to Japan under the New Colombo Plan. A really visionary program developed
and established by our foreign minister, Julie Bishop.  
  
The flow of ideas and inspiration is by no means one way.  
  
Just ask Eddie Jones, who masterminded the Japanese Rugby team’s spectacular
victory over the Springboks in this year’s World Cup.  
  
Or visit Bendigo, in Victoria, where Australian workers build the Bushmaster
mine-resistant armoured personnel carriers, four of which have been acquired
by the Japanese Self Defence Force.  
  
Or look at the Australian company Mesoblast, which last month became the first
foreign company to have a stem cell therapy approved for inclusion on Japan’s
National Health Insurance scheme.  
  
Innovation, super-powered by the Internet, enabled by open markets, is
transforming our world. New jobs, new industries, new products.  
  
The changes are exhilarating, the opportunities have never been greater, and
I’m so thrilled to see so many Australian and Japanese innovators, scientists
and technologists, working closely together at the very edge of the
technological frontier.  
  
Innovate or perish  
  
Now, a nation’s GDP is the product of population, participation and
productivity. The three “Ps”.  
  
So how does Japan’s economy grow in the face of declining population? It works
harder with participation and productivity.  
  
The number of working aged Japanese has fallen by 1.7 million since mid-2010,
and yet those actually in work has risen by around one million.  
  
How? Nearly all of the increase has been through the entry of women into the
workforce.  
  
Mr Abe is as determined as I am to see greater gender equity in the workplace.  
  
The rise of female participation, advances in automation, and dynamic global
production chains shows how an economy can adapt to demographic declines.  
  
We both recognise that a key, an absolutely important key, to greater female
participation in the workplace is ensuring that women do not have to choose
between work and family - our recent childcare reforms in Australia are
designed with that goal in mind. Ensuring that women are able to be mothers
and continue in the workplace, ensuring they can balance work and family, is
not simply good for the economy, it’s not simply good for the dignity and the
life of the women and their children and their husbands and the nation: it
addresses both. In the developed world, birth rates are highest in the
countries where female labourforce participation is highest.  
  
It may seem counter-intuitive but it’s a fact.  
  
So the better that women can balance work and family, the more women will
work, the more women will participate in the workplace, and it makes it more
likely they will have children and ensure the birth rates are at a sustainable
level.  
  
Now, Japan’s per capita GDP growth rate - the economy as it is experienced at
the level of the individual, the one level that really matters - has outpaced
Europe’s over the first 15 years of this millennium.  
  
Over the past decade it has fallen only a fraction short of the United States
(0.5 per cent per year in Japan compared with 0.6 per cent in the US).  
  
More broadly, looking at quality of life, Japanese homicide rates are less
than one-tenth of the OECD average. Income and wealth inequality is among the
lowest in the world. Japan’s public transport systems, life expectancy, and
cultural amenity are up there with the very best, if not, the best.  
  
It’s easy to lose sight of how well Japan is coping with its economic
challenges. It’s never been a more exciting time to be in Australia. In
Australia, we are filled with optimism. And Japan has every reason to be
filled with excitement and optimism too. And you know for our own part, a lot
of people have said the mining boom is subsiding, terms of trade have dropped,
commodity prices are down, things are going to be very tough for Australia.  
  
This is our 25th year of uninterrupted economic growth, longer than any other
advanced economy.  
  
Export prices have fallen for our commodities but volumes are rising and new
opportunities are opening up. As many as 340,000 jobs have been created in the
past year alone. As a politician, I am appropriately sceptical of all
statistics, particularly polling statistics. So one should look for long term
trends rather than short term numbers. Businessmen and women know that too. We
have seen unemployment decline in Australia in the latter part of this year.  
  
For another part, we are the most successful multicultural nation in the
world. And, we are a genuinely multicultural nation. We have people,
Australians, from every country in the world. We are an immigrant nation, a
multicultural nation, that is in our essence. In my own city of Sydney alone,
nearly a third of the population were born outside of Australia, and we have
achieved that with remarkable harmony relative to anywhere else. There is a
lot for Australians to be proud of, there is a lot for those who do business
with Australia to be confident in - our prospects, our future, our dynamism,
our economy.  
  
The fastest growing markets are right here in this region.  
  
Already, last year’s Japan-Australia Economic Partnership Agreement is
delivering big returns. The value of beef exports is up by a quarter. I have
to disclose that my wife and I own a cattle property, so we are very pleased
by that, it’s extremely good. Cheese, table grapes and wine have also fared
especially well.  
  
Japan is also a crucial source of investment, illustrated by, among other
things, Japan Post’s recent acquisition of Australia’s Toll Group. (The stock
of Japanese investment in Australia is estimated to be $174 billion).  
  
And we are both founding members of the world’s most ambitious regional trade
agreement, the Trans Pacific Partnership, which promises to drive further
economic integration, growth and opportunity across the Asia-Pacific.  
  
The TPP takes aim at 21st century trade barriers that many of us did not know
existed, such as “data protectionism”, which is becoming a concern for our
resource companies as they analyse terabytes of data from automated operations
around the world.  
  
Just as we promote the right of free movement across the skies, and across the
open seas, both our countries are working to preserve the freedom to explore,
share and capitalise on new ideas.  
  
Our National Innovation and Science Agenda is a statement of how we approach
the world: minds open, embracing change, and backing talented Australians with
great ideas.  
  
It is about fostering a culture of optimism, dynamism and entrepreneurship to
drive new jobs, higher wages and growth.  
  
And we recognise the key insight that Japan has always known - our greatest
assets are our people.  
  
But we must work harder to embrace innovation to stay competitive, and I know
Prime Minister Abe feels the same. Like Japan’s ‘third arrow’ of structural
reform, we need to deepen competition and provide more reward for imagination
and effort.  
  
Perhaps most importantly of all, we have to make the right calls on
innovation, to get the great ideas flowing and to get those great ideas to
market.  
  
The innovative companies of contemporary Japan are drawing upon a great
tradition that traces back at least a hundred and fifty years.  
  
Time and time again Japan has thrived upon adversity, and will do so again.  
  
I’m told that one of Prime Minister Abe’s intellectual heroes is the famous
19th century teacher YOSHIDA (Yo-shee-da) Shoin, who helped to spark the Meiji
Restoration.  
  
Yoshida risked his life in an unsuccessful attempt to stow away on board
Admiral Perry’s ship, in 1854. His motivation was to acquire knowledge. He
wanted to learn from the culture and technologies of foreign countries and
encourage innovation and progress in Japan.  
  
With Japan on the brink of emerging internationally after hundreds of years of
isolation, Yoshida knew that the best way to deal with change was not to
resist it, but to embrace it. He saw that change offered opportunity not
threats.  
  
To acquire the skills and knowledge needed to survive and thrive in the new,
disruptive and exciting world that Japan was boldly re-entering.  
  
The journey to modernity which Yoshida helped inspire came from that courage.  
  
But the spirit of brave inquiry was embodied in Prime Minister Abe’s
grandfather, building bridges to Australia in the 1950s, and it is present in
Prime Minister Abe.  
  
The oil shocks of the 1970s promoted a culture of efficiency and innovation in
energy supply, epitomised by today’s hybrid and electric cars.  
  
Australia’s world-leading scientists and researchers - in biotech,
agricultural science, or solar energy - have much that they can work with in
Japan.  
  
It is no surprise that Japanese firms are leading the fight against global
warming. They’re already leading the field of hybrid and electric cars, and Mr
Abe believes that they can increase the battery life of their ultra-long life
batteries by five times.  
  
As your Prime Minister told the Paris Conference of the Parties just a few
weeks ago: “The key to acting against climate change without sacrificing
economic growth is the development of innovative technologies.”  
  
We didn’t compare notes beforehand, but if we had, it wouldn’t have changed
either of our speeches because they had a lot in common - recognising the key
to a low carbon world is found in more innovation, more technology and more
science.  
  
Today, like Yoshida in the prelude to the Meiji Restoration, and Prime
Ministers Menzies and Kishi in the 1950s, we are once again standing on the
brink of a brave new world.  
  
There has rarely been a time in which technology has been so disruptive and
the opportunities so great.  
  
Few partnerships have been as fruitful as the one we continue to experience
between our two countries.  
  
A strong Japan is good for our region, as is a strong Australia.  
  
There has never been a better time to be investing in the friendship between
Australia and Japan.  
  
In the wise words of Yoshida, the great 19th Century teacher:  
  
jikko naki mononi; saykoh nahshi - to succeed, we must act on our ideas.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
Thank you Petra for that very kind welcome and your description of the
extraordinary work of the McGrath Foundation and your leadership. And so many
distinguished guests here today, all of you are distinguished because you are
all going to distinguish yourself by enormous generosity to the McGrath
Foundation. That's the distinction that we should all be proud of today.  
  
Can I acknowledge Glenn McGrath and Sara, James and Holly McGrath and baby
Madison McGrath, Tracy Bevan, McGrath Foundation Ambassador and Director, John
Conde, the Chairman, and of course, Troy Grant, the Deputy Premier.  
  
Now, Petra mentioned that the McGrath Foundation does receive support from
government, I understand the New South Wales Government has contributed $2.5
million dollars this year and the Federal Government is contributing, this was
announced in the Budget, $18 million over four years, as we should.  
  
I just want to note the extraordinary inspiration of Jane McGrath's life. Jane
McGrath's vision, the way Glenn has carried that, his leadership, his
inspiration has moved so many people to do such remarkable work in support of
women with breast cancer. Petra has talked about the 110 breast care nurses,
and it is good to see some of you here today. Thank you again, so much. Let's
give them another round of applause.  
  
The way you have inspired so much fundraising, community fundraising, and I
know we will be hearing from Hugh Bateman, the driver of the Pink Tractor
shortly, but really, that is a great effort and you’ve exceeded your target of
$380,000 and I know that is separate, of course, to what was planned for the
Pink Test today, but, well done.  
  
And Glenn, it is remarkable, the way, the world of charitable fundraising is
very competitive. There are a lot of good causes out there, there are no bad
ones, they are all great causes. But, the McGrath Foundation has a certain
charisma about it and it is a charisma of you and your family, Jane, Sara,
your children, what you have brought to this is changing the lives for the
better of so many women.  
  
Now, as Petra said, one in eight Australian women will fight breast cancer in
their lives. But, that's bad news, that's bad. But, the good news is that
thanks to the advances in medical science and the work of great carers, great
nurses like those supported by all of us here today, and the McGrath
Foundation - 89 per cent of patients survive the treatment and the disease.
And that is remarkable. That is great news. That is real progress.  
  
Now, let me encourage you. Let me explain why your money, your support, your
financial support for the McGrath Foundation is so important. You may think,
you may say, ‘well, I pay my taxes and I pay my tax to the State Government, I
pay my tax to the Federal Government, and they've put some money in, so why
should I do anything else?’  
  
Well, there are many claims on governments, more claims then there is money to
pay for it. And, you know the dollar that you give today will buy no more than
a dollar that Troy Grant's Government gives or my Government gives, but, it
has a special quality because it comes with your love.  
  
It is not an impersonal payment announced in a Budget speech or doled out by
bureaucrats. It comes from your heart. It comes with your love. It comes with
your commitment, it’s part of you. And so, supporting the McGrath Foundation
is a way of putting part of yourself into this extraordinary work. Part of
your love, part of your care, part of your compassion is tied in with that
financial support.  
  
So, please, we can't help the weather, Troy and I are still arguing about
whether it is a State or Federal responsibility, I mean, it's not raining
everywhere in Australia so it clearly is a state responsibility.  
  
But, the most important thing is to give generously today. So, let's all do
that. Let's defy the elements, defy the elements and make this a record
fundraising year for the Pink Test.  
  
Thank you all very much.PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Thank you very much for that very warm welcome and thank you very much indeed
for coming out to this speech on your public holiday, on Martin Luther King
Day.  
  
This week Kim Beazley completes his time in Washington and draws a line under
exactly 33 years in public life and I thank him for every one of them -
especially the six in which he has been our Ambassador here in the United
States.  
  
Throughout his career, as the Minister for Defence, be it Communications
Minister, Finance Minister and as the leader of the Labor party and of the
Opposition, Kim has been a steadfast supporter of and eloquent advocate for
our Alliance, and I have got no doubt that he will continue to be so in the
years ahead.  
  
Much has changed in the United States in the forty one years since I first
came here.  
  
First, as a young student visiting my mother, a Rutgers Professor who lived in
Philadelphia. And then as a young journalist interviewing Governor George
Wallace in Montgomery as he mused about the prospects of Jimmy Carter’s
Presidential bid.  
  
My wife, Lucy and I have even worked for the US Government – as an advisor to
the Resolution Trust Corporation in the early 1990s, I came to this town. And
of course, as a partner of Goldman Sachs I used to be affectionately greeted
as “taxpayer” by your Ambassador in Australia. We co-founded the first big
Australian Internet company and we floated it on NASDAQ twenty years ago, and
since then so many visits on business and to family, including visiting our
son when he was studying at Harvard College, and of course for the last decade
or so as a politician in and out of office. And now as the Prime Minister.  
  
Now, since I became Prime Minister my message has been that this is the most
exciting time to be an Australian, the pace of change and disruption has never
been greater, the opportunities are of a scale that our parents could barely
imagine.  
  
And we seize them with confidence, innovation, imagination, enterprise – with
a determination to make volatility our friend – not our foe.  
  
Now, that spirit of enthusiastic enterprise has always been inspired by the
restless energy of the American people – always reaffirming the power of
optimism, resilience and a relentless curiosity always to find a new way, a
new idea.  
  
A new world and a new frontier that are constantly reimagined, and yet here
founded on values which are always contemporary - as timeless as they are
true.  
  
Values which we share: freedom, enterprise and a deep belief that everyone
should have the best chance to realise their dreams.  
  
Like you, we do not define our national identity by race, religion or cultural
heritage, but on shared political values at the heart of which is freedom and
mutual respect.  
  
At the core of our success, and of others’ failure, is the recognition that in
a true democracy the rule of law constrains the majority at the same time as
it empowers it.  
  
Freedom needs leaders, and today we honour one of the greatest.  
  
Martin Luther King’s dream echoed not just across this city and the red hills
of Georgia but right across the world and right across the ages.  
  
This morning at Arlington, Defence Secretary Ashton Carter and I honoured the
Americans who have died so that we could live in freedom at the Tomb of the
Unknown.  
  
In every major conflict since the First World War, those Americans have fought
beside Australians.  
  
In the great battles that finally brought that war to an end, American and
Australian units fought together under the leadership of our greatest general,
John Monash.  
  
Today in the skies over Iraq and Syria our combat pilots are fighting together
under the leadership of American commanders.  
  
Time and time again Australians and Americans have shown that they are
prepared to pay freedom’s terrible price.  
  
Our common cause in World War II forged an alliance that endures – and an
alliance which has evolved as the world around us has changed. The ANZUS
Treaty is now in its 65th year.  
  
This morning, Secretary Carter and I reflected on the young lives lost so that
we can live in freedom.  
  
Our way of life, our prosperity, our security, is built on the service and
sacrifice of our military families. My daughter’s family is one of them. Like
the loved ones of your veterans she has known all too well the anxious waits
between phone calls from places like Afghanistan and Iraq.  
  
Our countries know too well that the costs of war stretch for decades and that
every decision to deploy our troops comes with the contract to care for them
and their families - however long their way home might be.  
  
Now, I have spent the last two days in the Gulf, in Iraq and in Afghanistan
where I have been able to meet with and thank our servicemen and women for the
work they are doing there for our nation.  
  
I’ve also had the benefit of very candid discussions with the Crown Prince of
the United Arab Emirates, with the Prime Minister of Iraq, the President of
Afghanistan as well as other political and military leaders.  
  
The Afghanistan commitment is the longest in our military history - over
25,000 Australians have served there since 2001. Forty one were killed on
operations in Afghanistan and many others wounded.  
  
In Iraq our contribution today to the 60 nation-strong international coalition
against ISIL is second only to that of the United States.  
  
Other nations with larger economies, larger defence forces and closer to the
theatre are beginning to step up their commitments. As they should.  
  
Now, ISIL’s territorial gains in Iraq and Syria remain its core strength and,
in my view, our most immediate challenge. ISIL has used the declaration of a
caliphate as a powerful marketing tool which is attracting supporters, not
just to travel to the region but to carry out attacks on our citizens at home.  
  
The destruction of their self-styled caliphate would help to counter its
narrative of inevitable victory.  
  
The destruction of ISIL requires military action including boots on the
ground. But they must be the right boots on the right ground.  
  
The recent retaking of Ramadi is a good example. Led by the Iraqis themselves,
assisted by the Coalition’s respective air and Special Forces, it was not just
a blow to ISIL, but an example of the right combination.  
  
An enduring victory must be won and owned by the people of Iraq and Syria.  
  
Our role in the coalition is very important, the Prime Minister of Iraq
thanked me personally for the role that the Australian advisers played in
supporting the retaking of Ramadi. But, it was politically vitally important
for him that the retaking of that city was done and seen to be done by the
Iraqi army and, in particular, their counterterrorism service which is their
elite units.  
  
Now this check in ISIL’s momentum is only the first step.  
  
The border between Syria and Iraq is a line on the map. Neither country can be
secured without a settlement in the other.  
  
Unless the Sunni populations in Syria and Iraq can be reconciled with a new
and inclusive order - then ISIL or a successor extremist group will have a
ready recruiting ground.  
  
The biggest challenge, is plainly finding that political settlement in Syria.
The scale of the suffering is so great – a quarter of a million killed, 4
million refugees outside of the country, 6 million internally displaced.  
  
The enmities are so deep, the wrongs so shocking, that every option should be
on the table - from an institutionalised power sharing to some form of
partition. This is a time for creative pragmatism and a recognition that
difficult compromises will be required, particularly to avoid the sectarian
aspect of this struggle spreading more widely across the region.  
  
It is above all a time for all parties – our US-led coalition, the Sunni
states of the region, Iran and Russia - to get on the same page and bring this
war to an end.  
  
Now, looking at the challenge more broadly, all of our words and deeds must be
calculated with one aim in mind - to defeat the extremists, to dissuade people
from joining them, to thwart them when they try to attack us, to punish them
severely when they do - all to the end of making our people safe.  
  
We should not be so delicate as to say ISIL and its ilk have “got nothing to
do with Islam”.  
  
But neither should we tag all Muslims or their religion with responsibility
for the crimes of a tiny terrorist minority.  
  
This is precisely what the extremists want us to do.  
  
Today, they want us to turn on the Muslim communities in our midst because it
reinforces their narrative to young Muslims that America or Australia does not
want them, that they have no future here, that this is not their country too.  
  
Now, I have been heartened by my conversations with leaders of Muslim-majority
nations who are promoting an authentic, modern and tolerant Islam.  
  
As one said to me only a few days ago “we must not allow these criminals to
hijack our religion.”  
  
President Joko Widodo of Indonesia, whose capital was attacked last week and
with whom I spoke again on Friday, is a powerful advocate for moderate and
tolerant Islam.  
  
He condemns the extremists not just for their violence, most of which, after
all, is directed against other Muslims, but for the way they defame Islam, his
faith.  
  
As the democratically elected leader of the world’s largest Muslim-majority
country President Jokowi can play a vital role in promoting the counter
narrative from within the world of Islam that will ultimately defeat ISIL and
the other similar violent extremists.  
  
We will continue, for our part in Australia, our very close cooperation with
Indonesia in the campaign against terrorism.  
  
And in Australia, leading Islamic groups and leaders have also spoken out
strongly against ISIL, warning that any support for the group contradicts
Islamic teachings.  
  
Now, as we confront this threat, at home, in the Middle East, in Africa and
South East Asia, we should remember that terrorism is a strategy of the weak
deployed against the strong.  
  
We should not, as the President observed last week, allow anxiety about ISIL
to lead us into exaggerating its power. Their threat to sweep across
continents like the armies of Mohammed, to stable their horses in the Vatican
are crazed delusions. We should not amplify them.  
  
The coalition will win: by targeting ISIL militarily, using local ground
forces supported by Coalition air power, weapons and training; curbing ISIL
finances; stopping foreign fighter flows; and pursuing political resolution
and reconciliation in Syria and Iraq.  
  
There is one element of our campaign, however, that needs considerable
improvement.  
  
ISIL may have an archaic and barbaric ideology but its use of technology and
social media in particular is very sophisticated and agile.  
  
As ISIL uses social media for its propaganda, we must respond rapidly and
persuasively with the facts.  
  
It was clear to me from my recent visit that the Iraqi Government and other
anti ISIL forces are not reacting quickly enough to contradict ISIL’s online
messages which have been used both to recruit new fighters and demoralise
those who oppose them and we should help them with this.  
  
ISIL claims must be mocked and disproved as soon as they are made. The
cybersphere demands reactions as rapid as the kinetic battlefield.  
  
We are working with our partners in South East Asia to improve the
effectiveness of our counter narrative online, and I was pleased to see
heightened cooperation here in Washington between the Government and the
private sector telcos, software developers, and social media platforms to that
end.  
  
I am looking forward to further progressing our cooperation in this field in
the course of my discussions with the President tomorrow.  
  
War writes its own headlines and Americans must feel they have been at war for
a very long time.  
  
But the big story - possibly the biggest story of modern times - is that the
US-anchored rules-based order has delivered the greatest run of peace and
prosperity this planet has ever known.  
  
Nowhere is this more evident than in our own region.  
  
Forty years ago when I first came to this city, China was barely a participant
in the global economy; today it is the world’s second largest national
economy.  
  
The pace and scale of economic growth in our region is utterly without
precedent in human history. It would not have happened, and its continuance
cannot be assured, without the security and stability underwritten by a strong
and enduring United States presence in our region.  
  
A third of the world’s middle class lives in South and East Asia today. By
2030 it will be 55 per cent.  
  
It’s not just China. The Indian economy grew at 7.4 per cent in the year to
September last year, making it the fastest growing major economy in the world.  
  
Closer to our home is Indonesia - a quarter of a billion people, the world’s
largest majority Muslim majority nation. Its per capita GDP has increased by
more than 50 per cent over the past decade.  
  
We want to make the most of these opportunities on our doorstep. We’ve
championed the Trans Pacific Partnership and we urge your Congress to do so
too - and we have signed or are working towards free trade agreements with all
of the largest economies in the region.  
  
Free trade is not just good for jobs. It is good for security. The more we
trade, the more we rely on each other, the more our supply chains stretch
across countries and borders the more there is to lose by a disturbance in the
security and order on which our prosperity is founded.  
  
I will now turn specifically to the China – US relationship, but before doing
so let me remind us again there is a lot more to the Asia-Pacific than China.  
  
In addition to China’s 1.4 billion, there are 625 million people living in the
nations of South East Asia alone - not to speak of the 127 million in Japan,
itself the world’s third largest national economy, 50 million in South Korea
and of course the 1.7 billion in the Indian sub-continent.  
  
There is so much to offer in this region. China is vitally important, it is
the largest economy in the region, by a long way, and there is much to be
gained from strengthened China-US cooperation as we have seen.  
  
Progress on an effective global response to climate change could not have been
achieved without Presidents Xi and Obama seeing eye-to-eye, nor could the
settlement with Iran on its nuclear programme.  
  
And of course the road to any lasting resolution of the threat from North
Korea passes through Beijing as well as Washington.  
  
The United States, China, Australia - all the nations - agree that the world
has benefited mightily from China’s rise. We all agree that the biggest risk
to that continued peaceful rise is conflict and the disruption and instability
that would bring.  
  
So central is the Asia Pacific to the world economy, to global stability, that
the preservation of the international order and the peace that it brings has
been a consistent and absolutely central objective of both the United States
and Australia.  
  
China’s President Xi Jinping often says that China needs to avoid the
Thucydides Trap - referring to the passage in Book 1 of Thucydides’ history,
where after relating the rather complicated events that led up to the
Peloponnesian war, he observes, bluntly and shrewdly, that the real cause was
“The growth of the power of Athens and the alarm which this inspired in Sparta
made war inevitable.”  
  
Now, if avoiding the Thucydides Trap is a core objective of China’s strategy -
as President Xi insists it is - then we would hope that China’s actions would
be carefully calculated to make conflict less likely, not more, and would seek
to reassure neighbours of and build their confidence in China’s intentions.  
  
The legitimacy of claims to reefs and shoals should be a secondary
consideration when that objective is focussed on.  
  
Australia has no claims in the South China Sea, nor do we make any judgement
on the legitimacy of any of the competing claims. We urge all parties, not
just China, to refrain from further construction on those islands or reefs,
and to refrain from militarisation.  
  
We do so because unilateral actions are in nobody’s interest. They are a
threat to the peace and good order of the region on which the economic growth
and national security of all our neighbours depend.  
  
These differences should be resolved by international law. That is why
Australia attended, as observers, the merits hearing in The Hague last
November, in the case brought by the Philippines under the UN Convention on
the Law of the Sea.  
  
We look forward, in the coming months, to learning the outcome of the
Tribunal’s deliberations.  
  
We also look forward - I hasten to add - to the United States ratifying the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea. The US already observes the
treaty, which is a product of American leadership and crucial for resolving
potential flashpoints in many parts of the globe. Non-ratification diminishes
American leadership where it is most needed.  
  
Let me conclude with Book 5 of Thucydides’ history. There, the independent
island of Melos wanted to maintain its neutrality in the war. The Ambassadors
from Athens were unmoved and when the Melians appealed to justice they were
met with a sneer as timeless as it is chilling.  
  
“You know as well as we do”, the Ambassadors from Athens said, “that justice
is to be found only as between equals in power. As for the rest, the strong do
as they will and the weak suffer as they must.”  
  
Now, the international order, the rule of law, seeks to ensure that that is
not so, that might is not right, and that is why we will always work with the
United States and our other allies and partners to uphold.  
  
Let me turn again to the digital domain.  
  
Every aspect of our lives has been transformed by the digital world of the
Internet.  
  
Our global economy, the pace of its growth, is supercharged by technology.  
  
We must ensure, as free nations, that the Internet continues to be governed by
the communities that use it – not dominated by Governments.  
  
Freedom of the Internet is vital for democracy, human dignity and economic
progress.  
  
But cybersphere cannot be a lawless domain.  
  
Australia, the United States and others will work together internationally to
promote norms of behaviour that are consistent with a free, open and secure
internet.  
  
They include that states should not knowingly conduct or support cyber-enabled
intellectual property theft for commercial advantage.  
  
This approach can provide a basis for putting pressure on adversaries and
openly imposing costs on malicious actors.  
  
And we need to do all this while redoubling our work to counter the spread of
propaganda which incites extremist violence.  
  
This is an area in which over the years I have already engaged constructively
with many American officials and I’m looking forward to developing this cyber
security agenda in meetings tomorrow.  
  
Now, according to the Pew Foundation’s research on country’s attitudes, 83 per
cent of Americans declared themselves ‘interested’ in the 2008 US Presidential
elections. The same research showed that the figure in Australia at that time
was 84 per cent. I don’t think anything has changed.  
  
It has to be said that you have our attention, and while we make no judgements
on the partisan outcome, we hope that the strong bipartisan commitment to our
alliance, to our region and to the maintenance of a secure international order
will continue undiminished.  
  
Australia has never used the US-Alliance as an excuse for unloading
responsibility for our security onto the United States.  
  
We know that to enjoy the rewards of a rules-based order and the stability
that it delivers, we must also share the responsibilities that come with it.  
  
That is why we are making sustained and effective contributions to the battles
in Afghanistan and Iraq.  
  
That is why we are building and strengthening economic and security
cooperation with many of our regional neighbours including Japan, India and
Korea.  
  
That is why Australia has worked so hard to develop regional economic and
security architecture including APEC and the East Asia Summit, whose members
include both China and the United States.  
  
Now, some will claim that this range of new global threats we see today are
symptoms of receding American will, or power, and that we are watching the
fraying of the post-war order.  
  
We reject those pessimists.  
  
America is stronger than ever, its economy has rebounded from the Great
Recession. Its military, as the President reminded us last week, is the
mightiest in the world. Its entrepreneurs and its engineers have literally
imagined the modern digital world and brought it into being.  
  
Its values, America’s values are our values – of freedom, and they have never
been more important, or more suited to the rapidly changing times in which we
live.  
  
Martin Luther King could have been speaking of our times, he spoke for all
times, when he said:  
  
“The ultimate measure of a man is not where he stands in moments of comfort
and convenience, but where he stands at times of challenge and controversy.”  
  
And that is why we stand together – Australians and Americans – always united
in freedom’s cause.  
  
Thank you very much  
  
Thank you, Jeremy – and together, we gather on the land of the Ngunnawal
people and we honour their elders past and present.  
  
Australians, let us all rejoice, rejoice that tonight, we are honouring the
Australian of the Year Finalists. Selfless, committed to the service of
others, in different ways improving and enriching the lives of our whole
Australian family.  
  
Our 2015 Australian of the Year – Rosie Batty – used the platform of that
office for a passionate advocacy.  
  
Out of sadness and loss, but moved by love, she inspired us to stand up and
say "no" to violence against women and girls, and "no" to the disrespect from
which that violence stems.  
  
I want to thank Rosie, and all her fellow 2015 Australians of the Year, for
their remarkable contributions.  
  
And like them, yes – they deserve some applause! Well, it's very important to
be agile in the year of innovation.  
  
Like them, like our 2015 Australians of the Year, our 2016 finalists come from
across Australia and from every walk of life.  
  
We rejoice that they, too, are shining examples of our best selves.  
  
And tonight on the eve of Australia Day, we rejoice in being citizens of a
nation whose identity is not defined by religion or race, but rather, by
shared political values, open to all, democracy, the rule of law, mutual
respect, and our deep instinct in our Australian DNA that everyone is entitled
to a fair go.  
  
To all our fellow Australians, each and every one of you, each and every one
of us, has made this country what it is today.  
  
So for tomorrow, happy Australia Day, and to all the 2016 Australian of the
Year Finalists, congratulations!  
  
Thank you very much, Penny, for that very warm introduction. And thank you
Aunty Di for your very generous Welcome to Country. Thank you to the Salvos
for all the work they do and for their great, great collaboration. And, of
course, welcome Robert Doyle, here in this wonderful hall. A reminder, Lord
Mayor, of the absolutely unequal Victorian architectural endowment of
Melbourne – what an extraordinary city you preside over.  
  
Lucy and I are delighted to be here. This is a combination – what we have
today – is a combination of technology, innovation and great love. Of love of
our fellow man, of love for those worse off than us, of love for those who are
homeless.  
  
  
  
Harnessing with our imagination, innovation, technology that enables – as
Brendan was saying to Luce and I just down stairs a moment ago – the ability
to learn in a few seconds what it would have taken him years to learn on the
streets in the pre-digital era. And isn’t it great that four leading
Australian companies, as Penny said, the News CEO Peter Tonagh is here; Google
Maile Carnegie is here, CEO; Tracey Fellows from REA Group; and of course
David Spriggs from Infoxchange. You’ve all got together and you have come up
with this remarkable website.  
  
Now, AskIzzy is doing exactly what successful digital technology should always
do – it focuses on the customer or on the user. It asks – it doesn't say, it's
not saying, "What is a cool product we can develop and let's find someone who
needs it," which a lot of companies do, rarely successfully I might say.  
  
What you've done is you've brought your business skill and your understanding
of markets and customers and you've said, you've found out, you've worked with
the Salvos here, you've worked with their clients, with the homeless people
and people who have been homeless, like those we were talking to downstairs a
minute ago, and you've said, "What do you need? What actually do you need?"
You've found out what they need and then you've provided the technological
solution to do this.  
  
What it does is it provides a 24/7 information service that tells you where
shelter can be found, food, clothing, legal advice anywhere in Australia.
Punch in your suburb, punch in your postcode and a homeless person who needs
those services will be able to find what is in the area.  
  
It is going to also be an invaluable resource for those who support the people
in need – case workers, social workers, volunteers. The dual benefit of the
website is that the anonymous data it collects over time will provide a
better, clearer picture of where, when and how much demand there is for
services. That enables people on the frontline and it enables policy-makers
like myself to deliver better targeted and more impactful practical services.  
  
Now just a few nights ago I awarded, under a threat of tempest and lightning
in Canberra I might say – I have to say Ben Roberts-Smith, the Chairman of the
National Australia Day Council, is a very large and helpful human rain shadow.
I think I would have been drenched if I hadn't been standing next to him, so
thank you Ben for that.  
  
But it was a pretty wild night but there were two remarkable young
Australians, Lucas Pratchett and Nic Marchesi who are here today, who were
awarded as the Young Australian of the Year. They're the founders of the
mobile Orange Sky Laundry service which is available here in Melbourne which
to-date has cleaned or laundered more than 70,000 kilos of clothes for
homeless Australians.  
  
That was a pretty cool idea, having washing machines and dryers in a van and
going around and helping homeless people. Neither of them expected that this
very simple gesture, this simple idea, practical, innovative idea, would go
such a long way to raising health standards and restoring dignity to homeless
people.  
  
And according to Nic and Lucas it's the conversations that get started while
the clothes are being washed that have the greatest impact because, as many of
you know, there is nothing lonelier than being homeless. That lack of
connection, that lack of engagement is in many ways the hardest cut, the
cruellest cut of homelessness. A sense of connection is a critical thing. Nic
and Lucas are providing that and AskIzzy is providing that too by making it
easier for people to find a means of connection.  
  
Now this application, this website, is the type of innovative, collaborative
and agile thinking that success in today's world demands. It's an example of
using all of the resources at our disposal to harness the power of technology
to make a difference.  
  
So I want to applaud all of the parties that were involved in this – the
Salvation Army, the homeless people and formerly homeless people who provided
the key insight into what the customer need was.  
  
To realestate.com.au and News Corp Australia, I want to applaud you for
recognising the potential of AskIzzy and supporting its development.  
  
I want to acknowledge Google, not only for awarding Infoxchange the half a
million dollars to develop the product but for running the Google Impact
Challenge for non-profits that use innovative ideas to tackle complex
problems.  
  
To Infoxchange, what you've done is an example of what can be achieved when a
social conscience, when deep love combined with technology, pragmatism, a
focus on the customer, this is an outstanding example of everything
successful, progressive, compassionate 21st-century Australia will be; a
country that is known for its innovation, for its compassion, for its love and
support for those less fortunate, bringing all of those talents together to
achieve such a better outcome.  
  
So well done to everybody involved and Lucy and I are delighted to be here in
Melbourne to launch this application.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Yanggu gulanyin ngalawiri, dhunayi, Ngunawal dhawra.  
  
Wanggarra lijinyin mariny bulan bugarabang.  
  
‘Today, Mr Speaker we are meeting together on Ngunawal land country and we
acknowledge and pay our respects to their Elders.’  
  
I rise today to deliver the 2016 Closing the Gap statement.  
  
I pay my deep respects to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander custodians
who have cared for this country and to their elders who continue to hold the
knowledge of their rich and diverse cultures.  
  
For more than 40,000 years Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have
cared for this country. Theirs are the oldest continuing cultures on earth.
Our nation is as old as humanity itself. The stories of the Dreamtime, the
rock carvings on the Burrup Peninsula, these speak to us from thousands of
years, so far away, time out of mind, linked by the imagination, the humanity
of our first Australians.  
  
Yet we have not always shown you, our First Australians, the respect you
deserve. But despite the injustices and the trauma, you and your families have
shown the greatest tenacity and resilience.  
  
Recently, I visited the Aboriginal community at La Perouse in Sydney - their
ancestors have watched over Botany Bay for time out of mind. Their families
saw Cook and saw Philip and today they watch A380s land at Mascot and
container ships dock at Port Botany.  
  
They live on their lands, as their ancestors have done, in the heart of our
largest city, and I heard of the hardship and injustice from policies past,
but Mr Speaker, I was inspired by their optimism and resilience and their
determination to succeed.  
  
That determination is reflected in the report tabled here today, although we
too often talk about percentages and not enough about people.  
  
The Closing the Gap challenge is often described as a problem to be solved -
but more than anything it is an opportunity. If our greatest assets are our
people, if our richest capital is our human capital, then the opportunity to
empower the imagination, the enterprise, the wisdom and the full potential of
our First Australians is an exciting one.  
  
And when we focus on the gap to be closed and ending the disadvantage that
entails, we should not overlook or fail to celebrate the many successes of
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.  
  
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians are studying at Universities
at home and abroad, at Oxford and Harvard, are completing medicine degrees and
apprenticeships, are sending their children to school, buying homes, starting
and running businesses, and have dreams for the future that are as optimistic
and as different as the rest of us.  
  
You are our neighbours; our peers; our colleagues; our fellow teammates on the
sporting field; Parliamentarians like the Member for Hasluck, Ken Wyatt, and
Senators Joanna Lindgren, Nova Peris and Jacquie Lambie, whom I acknowledge in
the chamber today.  
  
The headline statistics in today’s report do not recognise the diversity that
exists in your culture, language and experiences which differ across the
nation, from the cities to remote Australia, in every State and Territory.  
  
When the first Aboriginal Member of Parliament, Senator Neville Bonner, gave
his first speech in 1971, he said this: "all persons who desire to be so
classified, regardless of hue of skin, and who have flowing in their veins any
portion, however small, of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island blood, are
Indigenous people”.  
  
A person's right to shape their own identity, and for that identity to be
respected, is central to the wellbeing of all people. And yet for decades,
Aboriginality and skin colour had been used to control the lives of Indigenous
people and diminish their value in society. This must be no longer.  
  
In 2008, the National Apology to the Stolen Generations was a great milestone
in the healing of our nation. It was a long overdue acknowledgement of grief,
and the suffering and the loss inflicted on generations of Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people.  
  
We all recognise that healing takes time. And our generation seeks to make a
further amends, a further setting right, through formal recognition of
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in our Constitution.  
  
Our nation’s founding document should reflect Australia as it is, not how it
was perceived 120 years ago.  
  
We recognise and value Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander culture and
peoples, and we are proud that their history is our history. Their culture is
our culture. Their values are our values.  
  
We recognise that prior to the arrival of European settlers, Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander Australians spoke hundreds of languages and over 600
dialects. These words carried knowledge. Tragically, many of these languages
have been lost and many are critically endangered.  
  
That is why today, we are announcing $20 million in additional funding over
two years for the Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander Studies (AIATSIS). This will enable the collection of critical
cultural knowledge, and promote an understanding of Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander cultures, traditions, languages and stories, past and present.
It will keep safe this knowledge for all Australians by digitising and
protecting it from being lost.  
  
Now, a few weeks after I became the Prime Minister, I crossed paths with Dr
Chris Sarra. I asked him what three things we could do in Indigenous policy
that would truly make a difference. He said to me it was too complex a
question to answer straight away, but later, at his Senate Occasional Lecture,
he answered my question. This is what he said:  
  
Firstly, acknowledge, embrace and celebrate the humanity of Indigenous
Australians. Secondly, bring us policy approaches that nurture hope and
optimism rather than entrench despair. And lastly, do things with us, not to
us. Do things with us, not to us.  
  
When the first Closing the Gap report was tabled in 2009, as the Leader of the
Opposition, I delivered a statement to the Parliament. I affirmed the
Coalition’s commitment to deliver a new future, with hope and opportunity for
all, to Indigenous Australians.  
  
Today, as Prime Minister I stand by the intent of that commitment.  
  
However, I will honour that commitment not by delivering to Indigenous
Australians, but by working with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leaders
and their communities across Australia. There is great wisdom in what Chris
Sarra said. Do things with us not to us.  
  
That is why this Government committed late last year, as a first step, to
implement a regional empowerment model to eight communities, and other
communities who are seeking a place-based approach.  
  
To build autonomy and independence, our task must be to engage with Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander Australians in a partnership that is based on
mutual respect.  
  
Constitutional Recognition of our First Australians provides us with an
opportunity to implement those three strategies.  
  
Were Australians to vote to amend our Constitution to acknowledge the humanity
and the history of our continent’s first inhabitants and do so in language
that is meaningful to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and to all
Australians, then it would be an important step towards true reconciliation –
one that nurtures hope and optimism.  
  
And it would be done together, not done to or done for. The terms of any
amendment will need the endorsement of a majority of all Australians and a
majority of States to successfully amend the Constitution, but it will need
the support of our First Australians to be proposed at all.  
  
In the eight years since the Closing the Gap targets were set, there has been
mixed progress towards meeting them, and today again we are seeing mixed
results.  
  
The target to halve the gap in child mortality by 2018 is on track. Between
1998 and 2014 Indigenous child death rates declined by 33 per cent and the gap
narrowed by 34 per cent.  
  
While Indigenous mortality rates have declined since 1998, the life expectancy
gap is still around 10 years – an unacceptably wide gap, and this target is
not on track to be met by 2031.  
  
The original early childhood education target expired in December 2013 and was
unmet. As such, the renewed target aims to achieve 95 per cent preschool
enrolment for all Indigenous four year olds by 2025.  
  
The reading and numeracy target has had mixed results – with four of the eight
measurement points for students achieving national minimum reading and
numeracy standards being on track. Closing the gap in education is achievable.
For example, for Year 3 reading target to be met, we need 640 additional
Indigenous students to be reading at the national minimum standard to meet
that target. Surely we can achieve that.  
  
A new target to close the gap in school attendance by the end of 2018 has seen
little change in the attendance rates for Indigenous students in 2015, and the
gap remains sizeable. However, data tells us on a given school day the vast
majority of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students are attending
school.  
  
We are seeing more young people staying at school, placing the target to halve
the gap in Year 12 attainment by 2020 on track. More Indigenous young people
are finishing high school, and more and more of those young people are
enrolling in tertiary education.  
  
The past decade has seen a seventy per cent increase in the number of
Indigenous students in higher education. Those young people of today will grow
up to be our future Indigenous leaders.  
  
As in previous years, the target to halve the gap in employment by 2018 is not
on track. However, I am optimistic that factors such as gains in Indigenous
education, economic growth and strong Indigenous businesses will have a
positive impact on these results in coming years.  
  
Now the Prime Minister of the day tables the Closing the Gap report as a
report card of our nation, on our combined efforts. This shared responsibility
falls to each and every single Australian, Indigenous and non-Indigenous,
every level of government and every business and organisation.  
  
With each report we have an opportunity to assess where we must redouble our
efforts and derive better value from the admittedly finite resources of
government.  
  
State and Territory governments are necessary partners and between this year’s
report and the next I will work to ensure we are better tracking progress
across the jurisdictions so we can target our efforts and accelerate outcomes.
The key driver of progress has to be economic empowerment through employment,
through entrepreneurship and through the use of our human capital.  
  
Forty years after Gough Whitlam poured dirt into the hands of Vincent
Lingiari, we continue to ensure hard fought Indigenous land rights are
protected, while enabling those rights to be converted into economic
opportunities.  
  
Last year we saw Indigenous leaders come together at the Growing with
Governance Forum to develop the Indigenous Investment Principles. In the year
ahead, working closely with Indigenous Australians and state and territory
governments, we will implement the recommendations from COAG's investigation
into land use to better enable Indigenous land owners and native title holders
to use their land for economic development.  
  
We are starting to see some returns on reform we have undertaken in employment
policy – our employment programmes under the Indigenous Advancement Strategy
is assisting around 50 Indigenous Australians into a job every day.  
  
But beyond direct employment, Mr Speaker, it won’t come as a surprise that I
am committing to create more opportunities for Indigenous businesses, to
encourage Indigenous innovation, which we know in turn creates a pipeline of
opportunity.  
  
We know Indigenous businesses are one hundred times more likely to hire
Indigenous people, so supporting Indigenous enterprise is also a way to boost
employment. And I’d encourage all Honourable Members, wherever they can to
celebrate and promote Indigenous businesses in their own electorates.  
  
Last night I hosted a function here in Parliament House, for young Indigenous
entrepreneurs. I wanted to celebrate the incredible talent among Indigenous
Australians who every day are making a contribution to their families, to the
economy, to society and to our nation. I want us, as a nation, to tell the
rich story of Indigenous creativity, of innovation and entrepreneurship.  
  
Now while we should celebrate the successes, we cannot sugar-coat the enormity
of the job that remains.  
  
We do face very real and difficult challenges, particularly in isolated
communities.  
  
We must be honest about the catastrophe and violence created by drug and
alcohol misuse and confront, and respond, to the cries of help, particularly
from women and children.  
  
Indigenous Australians represent 3 per cent of the Australian population yet
they represent a staggering 27 per cent of the prisoner population. The
Indigenous adult imprisonment rate is increasing. When young Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander men see jail as a rite of passage, we have failed to
give them a place in society, in our community, and an alternative pathway
where they can thrive.  
  
There is a vicious cycle of young Indigenous people being placed into prison,
reoffending and then returning to prison.  
  
We know the power of employment, the power of a job, as a circuit breaker in
that dreadful cycle.  
  
The Minister Nigel Scullion, Senator Scullion and Senator Cash, the Minister
for Employment, are working across jurisdictions and portfolios, working with
the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities to develop a blueprint
for supporting, and then transitioning, people from prison to work, to
security and prosperity.  
  
We have to stay the course on key policy priorities: the transformative power
of education, the fulfilment that comes from employment, the right of all
people to be safe and free from family and domestic violence, especially women
and children. While delivering on these priorities we must be innovative in
creating effective solutions, in partnership with the community, to address
those challenges.  
  
We have to be agile, and we have to allow for new approaches – this will
enable us to continue to build the evidence base where it doesn’t yet exist.  
  
It is equally important we listen to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people when they tell us what is working and what needs to change. It’s our
role as government to provide an environment that enables Indigenous leaders
to develop local solutions. Again, Mr Speaker, it is time for Governments to
‘do things with aboriginal people, not do things to them’.  
  
Now, we are the most successful multicultural society in the world. The glue
that holds us together is mutual respect – a deep recognition that each of us
is entitled to the same respect, the same dignity, the same opportunities.  
  
Closing the Gap is more than another government indigenous policy.  
  
It speaks to all of us and it speaks about all of us – it is our best selves,
our deep, just, fair values given practical form.  
  
When we close the gap we make ourselves more whole, more complete – more
Australian.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Yanggu gulanyin ngalawiri, dhunayi, Ngunawal dhawra.  
  
Wanggarra lijinyin mariny bulan bugarabang.  
  
‘Today, Mr Speaker we are meeting together on Ngunawal land country and we
acknowledge and pay our respects to their Elders.’  
  
I rise today to deliver the 2016 Closing the Gap statement.  
  
I pay my deep respects to the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander custodians
who have cared for this country and to their elders who continue to hold the
knowledge of their rich and diverse cultures.  
  
  
  
For more than 40,000 years Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people have
cared for this country. Theirs are the oldest continuing cultures on earth.
Our nation is as old as humanity itself. The stories of the Dreamtime, the
rock carvings on the Burrup Peninsula, these speak to us from thousands of
years, so far away, time out of mind, linked by the imagination, the humanity
of our first Australians.  
  
Yet we have not always shown you, our First Australians, the respect you
deserve. But despite the injustices and the trauma, you and your families have
shown the greatest tenacity and resilience.  
  
Recently, I visited the Aboriginal community at La Perouse in Sydney - their
ancestors have watched over Botany Bay for time out of mind. Their families
saw Cook and saw Philip and today they watch A380s land at Mascot and
container ships dock at Port Botany.  
  
They live on their lands, as their ancestors have done, in the heart of our
largest city, and I heard of the hardship and injustice from policies past,
but Mr Speaker, I was inspired by their optimism and resilience and their
determination to succeed.  
  
That determination is reflected in the report tabled here today, although we
too often talk about percentages and not enough about people.  
  
The Closing the Gap challenge is often described as a problem to be solved -
but more than anything it is an opportunity. If our greatest assets are our
people, if our richest capital is our human capital, then the opportunity to
empower the imagination, the enterprise, the wisdom and the full potential of
our First Australians is an exciting one.  
  
And when we focus on the gap to be closed and ending the disadvantage that
entails, we should not overlook or fail to celebrate the many successes of
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people.  
  
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Australians are studying at Universities
at home and abroad, at Oxford and Harvard, are completing medicine degrees and
apprenticeships, are sending their children to school, buying homes, starting
and running businesses, and have dreams for the future that are as optimistic
and as different as the rest of us.  
  
You are our neighbours; our peers; our colleagues; our fellow teammates on the
sporting field; Parliamentarians like the Member for Hasluck, Ken Wyatt, and
Senators Joanna Lindgren, Nova Peris and Jacquie Lambie, whom I acknowledge in
the chamber today.  
  
  
  
The headline statistics in today’s report do not recognise the diversity that
exists in your culture, language and experiences which differ across the
nation, from the cities to remote Australia, in every State and Territory.  
  
When the first Aboriginal Member of Parliament, Senator Neville Bonner, gave
his first speech in 1971, he said this: "all persons who desire to be so
classified, regardless of hue of skin, and who have flowing in their veins any
portion, however small, of Aboriginal or Torres Strait Island blood, are
Indigenous people”.  
  
A person's right to shape their own identity, and for that identity to be
respected, is central to the wellbeing of all people. And yet for decades,
Aboriginality and skin colour had been used to control the lives of Indigenous
people and diminish their value in society. This must be no longer.  
  
In 2008, the National Apology to the Stolen Generations was a great milestone
in the healing of our nation. It was a long overdue acknowledgement of grief,
and the suffering and the loss inflicted on generations of Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander people.  
  
We all recognise that healing takes time. And our generation seeks to make a
further amends, a further setting right, through formal recognition of
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people in our Constitution.  
  
Our nation’s founding document should reflect Australia as it is, not how it
was perceived 120 years ago.  
  
We recognise and value Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander culture and
peoples, and we are proud that their history is our history. Their culture is
our culture. Their values are our values.  
  
We recognise that prior to the arrival of European settlers, Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander Australians spoke hundreds of languages and over 600
dialects. These words carried knowledge. Tragically, many of these languages
have been lost and many are critically endangered.  
  
  
  
That is why today, we are announcing $20 million in additional funding over
two years for the Australian Institute of Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander Studies (AIATSIS). This will enable the collection of critical
cultural knowledge, and promote an understanding of Aboriginal and Torres
Strait Islander cultures, traditions, languages and stories, past and present.
It will keep safe this knowledge for all Australians by digitising and
protecting it from being lost.  
  
Now, a few weeks after I became the Prime Minister, I crossed paths with Dr
Chris Sarra. I asked him what three things we could do in Indigenous policy
that would truly make a difference. He said to me it was too complex a
question to answer straight away, but later, at his Senate Occasional Lecture,
he answered my question. This is what he said:  
  
Firstly, acknowledge, embrace and celebrate the humanity of Indigenous
Australians. Secondly, bring us policy approaches that nurture hope and
optimism rather than entrench despair. And lastly, do things with us, not to
us. Do things with us, not to us.  
  
When the first Closing the Gap report was tabled in 2009, as the Leader of the
Opposition, I delivered a statement to the Parliament. I affirmed the
Coalition’s commitment to deliver a new future, with hope and opportunity for
all, to Indigenous Australians.  
  
Today, as Prime Minister I stand by the intent of that commitment.  
  
However, I will honour that commitment not by delivering to Indigenous
Australians, but by working with Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander leaders
and their communities across Australia. There is great wisdom in what Chris
Sarra said. Do things with us not to us.  
  
That is why this Government committed late last year, as a first step, to
implement a regional empowerment model to eight communities, and other
communities who are seeking a place-based approach.  
  
To build autonomy and independence, our task must be to engage with Aboriginal
and Torres Strait Islander Australians in a partnership that is based on
mutual respect.  
  
Constitutional Recognition of our First Australians provides us with an
opportunity to implement those three strategies.  
  
Were Australians to vote to amend our Constitution to acknowledge the humanity
and the history of our continent’s first inhabitants and do so in language
that is meaningful to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people and to all
Australians, then it would be an important step towards true reconciliation –
one that nurtures hope and optimism.  
  
And it would be done together, not done to or done for. The terms of any
amendment will need the endorsement of a majority of all Australians and a
majority of States to successfully amend the Constitution, but it will need
the support of our First Australians to be proposed at all.  
  
In the eight years since the Closing the Gap targets were set, there has been
mixed progress towards meeting them, and today again we are seeing mixed
results.  
  
The target to halve the gap in child mortality by 2018 is on track. Between
1998 and 2014 Indigenous child death rates declined by 33 per cent and the gap
narrowed by 34 per cent.  
  
While Indigenous mortality rates have declined since 1998, the life expectancy
gap is still around 10 years – an unacceptably wide gap, and this target is
not on track to be met by 2031.  
  
The original early childhood education target expired in December 2013 and was
unmet. As such, the renewed target aims to achieve 95 per cent preschool
enrolment for all Indigenous four year olds by 2025.  
  
The reading and numeracy target has had mixed results – with four of the eight
measurement points for students achieving national minimum reading and
numeracy standards being on track. Closing the gap in education is achievable.
For example, for Year 3 reading target to be met, we need 640 additional
Indigenous students to be reading at the national minimum standard to meet
that target. Surely we can achieve that.  
  
A new target to close the gap in school attendance by the end of 2018 has seen
little change in the attendance rates for Indigenous students in 2015, and the
gap remains sizeable. However, data tells us on a given school day the vast
majority of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander students are attending
school.  
  
We are seeing more young people staying at school, placing the target to halve
the gap in Year 12 attainment by 2020 on track. More Indigenous young people
are finishing high school, and more and more of those young people are
enrolling in tertiary education.  
  
  
  
The past decade has seen a seventy per cent increase in the number of
Indigenous students in higher education. Those young people of today will grow
up to be our future Indigenous leaders.  
  
As in previous years, the target to halve the gap in employment by 2018 is not
on track. However, I am optimistic that factors such as gains in Indigenous
education, economic growth and strong Indigenous businesses will have a
positive impact on these results in coming years.  
  
Now the Prime Minister of the day tables the Closing the Gap report as a
report card of our nation, on our combined efforts. This shared responsibility
falls to each and every single Australian, Indigenous and non-Indigenous,
every level of government and every business and organisation.  
  
With each report we have an opportunity to assess where we must redouble our
efforts and derive better value from the admittedly finite resources of
government.  
  
State and Territory governments are necessary partners and between this year’s
report and the next I will work to ensure we are better tracking progress
across the jurisdictions so we can target our efforts and accelerate outcomes.
The key driver of progress has to be economic empowerment through employment,
through entrepreneurship and through the use of our human capital.  
  
Forty years after Gough Whitlam poured dirt into the hands of Vincent
Lingiari, we continue to ensure hard fought Indigenous land rights are
protected, while enabling those rights to be converted into economic
opportunities.  
  
Last year we saw Indigenous leaders come together at the Growing with
Governance Forum to develop the Indigenous Investment Principles. In the year
ahead, working closely with Indigenous Australians and state and territory
governments, we will implement the recommendations from COAG's investigation
into land use to better enable Indigenous land owners and native title holders
to use their land for economic development.  
  
We are starting to see some returns on reform we have undertaken in employment
policy – our employment programmes under the Indigenous Advancement Strategy
is assisting around 50 Indigenous Australians into a job every day.  
  
But beyond direct employment, Mr Speaker, it won’t come as a surprise that I
am committing to create more opportunities for Indigenous businesses, to
encourage Indigenous innovation, which we know in turn creates a pipeline of
opportunity.  
  
We know Indigenous businesses are one hundred times more likely to hire
Indigenous people, so supporting Indigenous enterprise is also a way to boost
employment. And I’d encourage all Honourable Members, wherever they can to
celebrate and promote Indigenous businesses in their own electorates.  
  
Last night I hosted a function here in Parliament House, for young Indigenous
entrepreneurs. I wanted to celebrate the incredible talent among Indigenous
Australians who every day are making a contribution to their families, to the
economy, to society and to our nation. I want us, as a nation, to tell the
rich story of Indigenous creativity, of innovation and entrepreneurship.  
  
Now while we should celebrate the successes, we cannot sugar-coat the enormity
of the job that remains.  
  
We do face very real and difficult challenges, particularly in isolated
communities.  
  
We must be honest about the catastrophe and violence created by drug and
alcohol misuse and confront, and respond, to the cries of help, particularly
from women and children.  
  
Indigenous Australians represent 3 per cent of the Australian population yet
they represent a staggering 27 per cent of the prisoner population. The
Indigenous adult imprisonment rate is increasing. When young Aboriginal and
Torres Strait Islander men see jail as a rite of passage, we have failed to
give them a place in society, in our community, and an alternative pathway
where they can thrive.  
  
There is a vicious cycle of young Indigenous people being placed into prison,
reoffending and then returning to prison.  
  
We know the power of employment, the power of a job, as a circuit breaker in
that dreadful cycle.  
  
The Minister Nigel Scullion, Senator Scullion and Senator Cash, the Minister
for Employment, are working across jurisdictions and portfolios, working with
the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander communities to develop a blueprint
for supporting, and then transitioning, people from prison to work, to
security and prosperity.  
  
We have to stay the course on key policy priorities: the transformative power
of education, the fulfilment that comes from employment, the right of all
people to be safe and free from family and domestic violence, especially women
and children. While delivering on these priorities we must be innovative in
creating effective solutions, in partnership with the community, to address
those challenges.  
  
We have to be agile, and we have to allow for new approaches – this will
enable us to continue to build the evidence base where it doesn’t yet exist.  
  
It is equally important we listen to Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander
people when they tell us what is working and what needs to change. It’s our
role as government to provide an environment that enables Indigenous leaders
to develop local solutions. Again, Mr Speaker, it is time for Governments to
‘do things with aboriginal people, not do things to them’.  
  
Now, we are the most successful multicultural society in the world. The glue
that holds us together is mutual respect – a deep recognition that each of us
is entitled to the same respect, the same dignity, the same opportunities.  
  
Closing the Gap is more than another government indigenous policy.  
  
It speaks to all of us and it speaks about all of us – it is our best selves,
our deep, just, fair values given practical form.  
  
When we close the gap we make ourselves more whole, more complete – more
Australian.  
  
Mr Speaker, two remarkable men who have made such a difference for Australia.
Who have played such an enormous part in creating the nation we are today.  
  
All of us are a little sad that they have announced that they are not going to
run again. We are all a little sad and they’ve have explained why. The fact
that John Howard used to talk about anno domini, or as Warren reminded us,
there is a point - you start off in your life as the youngest person in the
room, wondering why all these grown-ups are listening to you and before you
know it you're the oldest person in the room and it's time to give somebody
else a go.  
  
So, this is a watershed. Each of these men, Warren and Andrew, were farmer's
sons - they grew up on the land. With very, very deep roots in agriculture,
understanding the very basic, the most basic fundamental human industry,
growing food and fibre.  
  
Each of them have long strong marriages. They were able to do the things they
did for Australia, because of Warren's Lyn and Andrew's Maureen.  
  
And as my predecessor, Tony Abbott, would often say, and he spoke so truly
when he said all of us are volunteers, it's our families that are conscripts.
It is so important that we acknowledge them as they have done today.  
  
Warren's passion, of course, as has always been, as he said, infrastructure,
as he said. And, indeed, many ministers in his position have had a bridge
named after them. Warren, of course, actually has thousands and thousands of
bridges named after him.  
  
The Warren Truss, which is a very standard form of steel structured bridge,
designed in 1848 by James Warren, as seen all over the country, in fact, it's
all over every country. The Warren Truss bridge is everywhere, and I have got
no doubt that as Minister, you have opened many of them in your name, bearing
your design.  
  
Andrew, of course, has had a remarkable contribution in politics, all his
life. He started off - I first met Andrew over 30 years ago, in the company of
another great Australian, great in every respect, Kerry Francis Bullmore
Packer, when Andrew came to see us, when he was running the National Farmers'
Federation, and we have known each other all those years since.  
  
He is a formidable advocate for the rural industry, for the Cattlemen's Union,
in fact originally, and then Farmers', and then of course as Federal Director
of the Liberal Party.  
  
And he's played a very powerful role in this House, in this Parliament, as a
Minister and Shadow Minister.  
  
But Andrew Robb, Mr Speaker, has, without question, in his two and a half
years as Trade Minister, been the most successful Trade Minister in our
history.  
  
Members: Hear, hear.  
  
He has put in place some of the most important building blocks for our future,
and he's brought to that, brought to that work, his extraordinary commercial
experience, which spans politics, as I said, but also a long period working in
the private sector.  
  
His negotiating skills and his understanding of every aspect of Australian
industry - whether it's the digital industries that are benefitting so much
from the Trans-Pacific Partnership, whether it's primary industries that have
benefitted, particularly agriculture that have benefitted so much from the
free-trade agreements in east Asia, particularly, of course, the China-
Australia Free Trade Agreement, the benefits of which are in many parts of
Australia quite transformative.  
  
Warren's leadership of the National Party has been a source of great wisdom,
I’m sure the Member for Warringah would agree, great wisdom for the leaders of
the Liberal Party, great stability, great generosity. He is absolutely
committed – has always been committed to the strength of the Coalition.  
  
He understands the importance of the National Party’s distinct identity, but
the reality that we are so much stronger when we are working closely together.  
  
He's been a formidable advocate, as he said, for his local area, for his
electorate, and it was interesting, Andrew reflected on the same – made the
same point about the real satisfaction, that I think each and every one of us
derives from sorting out problems, simple problems, basic problems often, for
our local constituents. Ultimately that is our primary obligation to the
people, to the people who actually put a number against our name on the ballot
paper, the citizens of our electorate.  
  
Can I say, Mr Speaker, the generosity of both men were shown in the warmth in
their remarks, particularly to their counterparts on the other side. Andrew
Robb, of course, spoke of Gary Gray who has been his counterpart in the Labor
Party for many years and Warren of course, spoke fondly of Albo, and of course
they agreed on most things. Warren and Albo agreed on the value, the
transformational impact of so many big elements of infrastructure in
Australia. They just disagreed on who should get the credit for it.  
  
As for Gary and Andrew, they came to a landing on just about every element of
electoral practice, electoral law, and electoral reform. They just had to have
a final disagreement on who should win the election, but beyond that, as
professionals they were completely united.  
  
Mr Speaker, the most important thing for all of us to say to these men is
thank you. They have made Australia different. They've made Australia better.
They've shaped Australia. They've shaped our future, whether it is in trade or
it is in infrastructure or in their example of clear, warm, humane patriotism,
a love of country.  
  
Warren said in his maiden speech, in 1990, "It's often been said that
Australia is the lucky country, but it's not been all luck. Australia became a
great nation because there were people who were prepared to put in the effort,
and endure hardship whenever it was needed. The explorers who sought out the
land, the pioneers who opened it up, the engineers who built our cities and
bridges, the women who cared for their families and the soldiers who fought to
protect it."  
  
Mr Speaker, we are all proud to say that because of Warren's service, because
of Andrew's service, Australia has become a much luckier country, but they
have helped make that luck more prosperous, more secure, greater opportunities
for our children and grandchildren.  
  
Thank you, Warren and Andrew.  
  
Well thank you very much John, and its, your leadership and Danielle’s in
founding Soldier On is so inspiring. You’re right, we’ve known each other for
a while now and I was introduced to you, Lucy and I were introduced to you by
our son-in-law James who like you is a veteran of both Afghanistan and Iraq
and the work you’ve done, the leadership you’ve shown, has been really
transformative.  
  
You can see the results of that here today and right around the country with
what you’re doing for Australia’s veterans. So thank you. Can we applaud the
leadership of John and Danielle.  
  
Now it’s the, John has acknowledged the many leaders and dignitaries, civil
and military, I won't go through the whole list again, but it says, John,
Danielle, something about - quite a lot, about the admiration and support your
work has. That you have the Government represented, the Defence Minister and
our Ministerial colleagues, the Opposition, the Shadow Minister for Defence
Materiel and his colleagues, leaders of our Diplomatic Corps, we're all here.
We recognise the great work you're doing and that's why you have such great
support.  
  
Now, it's my privilege to launch the Robert Poate Reintegration and Recovery
Centre. On 29 August 2012, while serving for their country, in Uruzgan
Province, Private Robert Poate, Sapper James Martin and Lance Corporal Stjepan
Milosevic made the ultimate sacrifice for Australia. Their commitment and our
commitment to Afghanistan has been the longest in our military history.  
  
Over 25,000 Australians have served there since 2001. Forty one Australians
were killed on operations in Afghanistan and many others were wounded.  
  
We join Robert's parents Hugh and Janny here today in honouring the memory,
the service, the sacrifice of their son. A young man of whom they and all of
us are immensely proud, Australia's finest. A young man who was an
accomplished, talented, skilled, dedicated professional soldier, a natural
leader and a great teammate whose sense of fun made life in Uruzgan Province
quite a bit more bearable. He brought light. He brought light and good humour
to very challenging times and his comrades loved him for that. So once again,
we express to you, the Poate family, the condolences of the Australian people,
our love and our sympathy on your loss.  
  
Now I visited Afghanistan last month, where I attended the Afghan National
Army Officer Academy at Camp Qargha. I saw there first-hand the work of
Australian servicemen and women where Australian mentoring teams provide
training to develop the Afghan security forces. Just as Robert and his
battalion did those young men and women are working hard for a stronger, more
secure Afghanistan, because a more secure Afghanistan makes the world more
secure and it makes Australia more secure, it makes us all safer.  
  
Robert was proud of his work there, as we are today of all of the ADF
personnel who have served in Afghanistan and in other theatres, including
Iraq, which I also visited, carrying out the defence of Australia around the
world.  
  
Now here in Canberra where he was born and raised Robert's memory is
commemorated, his service is commemorated in this centre, helping veterans
from this part of Australia make the transition from the warzone to life back
home. More than 300 regular veterans are registered for support at this centre
and 275 seek assistance every month.  
  
Again I congratulate John Bale and his team at Soldier On for expanding the
services here as we’ve just seen so veterans can access full-time psychology
services and ex-service organisations can now operate from offices here to
better assist veterans and their families. There are as we've heard from
Robert Pickersgill writing workshops, music lessons, a library, photography
courses, yoga classes, a gym and employment support to reintegrate veterans
into the community.  
  
Soldier On recognises a holistic approach to healing and reintegration is
absolutely necessary. Now the Government takes the same approach as you've
seen in the Defence White Paper which the Defence Minister and I launched
yesterday. We’re committed to investing in better health systems, including a
$133 million e-health centre for ADF members throughout their career,
particularly those who've been wounded or injured, including we’re adding
additional medical personnel.  
  
It is critical that we do not ever forget that we best honour the veterans of
1916 by caring for the veterans of 2016. That's how we honour that ANZAC
memory best, most powerfully. The grandsons and the great-grandsons and the
great-granddaughters of the Diggers of 100 years ago, they are the veterans we
care for today and we do that very well as we, when we support Soldier On and
I'd encourage everybody, everyone who's watching this here today or elsewhere,
to consider supporting Soldier On. It is a great charity and it's worthy of
private and indeed of course public support.  
  
Now, across a century of service Australians at home have always been prepared
to volunteer, to support, our returned armed services men and women. That
spirit is embodied in Soldier On and its work and so I commend John's work,
that of his wife Danielle, Cavin Wilson, who founded Soldier On in 2012. As
John described I've had the honour to meet with him many times in my
electorate, in Wentworth at North Bondi RSL the centre of many progressive
ideas in terms of supporting veterans and their reintegration and of course,
here in Canberra in Parliament. John's own experience of war, his commitment
to support others who've lived through its traumas has led to the
establishment of centres like this across Australia and I have no doubt
there’ll be more. The number of veterans that Soldier On is assisting has
jumped from 200 a year to 500 a month. So it is my great honour, as Prime
Minister, to declare the Robert Poate Reintegration and Recovery Centre
officially open. Thank you.PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well thank you very much John [Brumby]. And I want to also acknowledge the
Beijing Chair of AusCham, Tracey Colgan; the AusCham Shanghai Chair Peter
Arkell, and all the representatives from the Chinese Embassy including of
course, Minister-Counsellor Huang Rengang. And I would like to take off from
what John has just said, about the transformation in China.  
  
This change, this shift to an economy that is led by consumption - as
certainly all developed economies are and many developing economies are - is
long overdue. I mean, it has been, it has been advocated or foreshadowed in at
least the last three five-year plans.  
  
And I think the truth is, the economic history is probably that that progress,
that transition, was derailed by the Global Financial Crisis when the Chinese
stimulus response was one of massive investment in infrastructure. And
financial repression, by which I mean keeping interest rates low so that banks
had essentially - households were subsidising banks which were then able to
loan money at low rates to companies, many of them associated with local
government, that were building infrastructure and doing property development
and so forth.  
  
And so, you had a big rise in investment as a share of GDP right at the time
when I am sure the economic planners in Beijing would have preferred it to be
going the other way. But, circumstances intervened.  
  
Now, that trajectory, that rebalancing, as it has been described by the
Chinese leadership, is happening. And it is enormously important to us. The
challenge for Australia is how do we transition from an economy that is being
led, fueled, by a massive mining construction boom to one that is able to
embrace all of the extraordinary opportunities of these, the most exciting
times in human history.  
  
You know we are living here in Australia in the most exciting part of the
world. This is the fastest-growing part of the global economy and the pace of
change, the pace of economic development has never been so rapid. It is not
just the scale, it is the pace of transformation.  
  
And so, I would like to go and take you back a little bit in history just to
reflect on that.  
  
Let's imagine ourselves standing in the fishing village of Shenzhen in the
late 1970s. In the silence and darkness of the early years of post-Mao China
and looking out at the glow of the Hong Kong skyline.  
  
Seen from a great height above, it would have looked a bit like one of those
satellite pictures of the Korean Peninsula - with the absolute darkness of
North Korea pushing up against the flaming lights of Seoul.  
  
And that is exactly what President Xi Jinping’s father, Xi Zhongxun, witnessed
when he was sent to run the southern province of Guangdong.  
  
The juxtaposition of the dark, impoverished autarky of the Chinese mainland,
and the thriving prosperity which was just out of reach in Hong Kong,
encouraged President Xi’s father to turn a blind eye to the peasants who were
willing to risk their lives to smuggle vegetables across the border.  
  
This, under his watch, was the beginning of China’s return to the global
market place, after a three-decade interregnum.  
  
President Xi’s father sanctioned this trade by establishing the Shenzhen
Economic Zone. And this, in turn, went on to become a modern, thriving
metropolis of 8 million people, which is now the export powerhouse of the
world.  
  
This forty-year transformation, writ large across a nation of 1.4 billion
people, is the single greatest and most exciting economic transformation of
modern times.  
  
And it’s happened right here in our own region.  
  
China’s transformation generated the greatest sustained resources boom we’ve
ever seen - as villages like Shenzhen produced great steel high-rise buildings
which were built with and powered by Australian iron ore, coal and gas.  
  
Now, as China’s transitions towards a more consumption-driven economy, it
faces big challenges. Reform and structural change is never easy. We
underestimate these challenges at our peril.  
  
But we have - the former Premier and I are smiling at each other, recognising
they are not easy anywhere, are they John?  
  
But we have a huge stake in the success of China’s economic transition because
it will generate enormous opportunities.  
  
That’s why we need to redouble our efforts to match China’s rapidly
diversifying economy.  
  
This is why we’ve delivered the China-Australia Free trade Agreement. It is
one of the most ambitious agreements of its kind and it is the highest quality
free trade agreement China has entered into with any other comparable nation.  
  
Now, beef and dairy exporters have captured the headlines, for good reasons.
But the ChAFTA is about much more than traditional farm products.  
  
Just ask the proprietor of Seppeltsfield Wines, Warren Randall, who will be
exporting tariff-free wine to China within three years. He says, and I quote:
“The China FTA is the most important development in wine marketing in the 39
years I’ve been in this business.”  
  
Or ask Western Australia’s Geraldton Fishermen’s Co-operative, which has just
established a live lobster warehouse at Guangzhou’s Baiyun airport.  
  
Or, indeed, the Tasmanian lobster fishermen I met only recently in Launceston
who told me prices had doubled, with great glee.  
  
And the biggest gains, however, are arguably in services.  
  
Lawyers, architects and engineers will now find it much easier to work in
China.  
  
Ask our world-leading aged care and health care providers, who say the level
of interest at a recent Austrade summit in Beijing was extraordinary.  
  
The good news is that Australia has already passed most of the way through the
greatest terms of trade shock in our history.  
  
Our miners have responded by becoming even more efficient and technologically-
advanced, increasing their share of Chinese demand.  
  
Two-way trade reached an extraordinary $150 billion last financial year,
despite falling export prices.  
  
The creation of over 300,000 new jobs here in Australia last calendar year
shows that we are progressing well from the mining boom to the services and
higher-value export boom of the 21st-century economy.  
  
We are transitioning to an ideas boom. An ideas boom that is based on
innovation, on ingenuity, on being more productive, more competitive, all of
those elements will enable us to succeed and excel in the 21st-century.  
  
And one of the key elements in that is open markets.  
  
And of course China is the biggest market by far in our region and we have
through the ChAFTA and the great work of all of you here, we have access to
that market in a way that we never had before. Now, we can't take anything for
granted. We’ve certainly not with our access to Chinese markets, we should
always reflect on how we can do better.  
  
How we can better tailor hospitality services to Chinese tourists.  
  
How we can continue to work with Chinese investors and customers to create new
jobs and opportunities.  
  
We need to continue to work hard to attract the talented people from China who
are helping to make our society not only more prosperous but also the most
successful multicultural society in the world - bound together by shared
values, freedom , democracy and rule-of-law. And the glue that binds us
together is mutual respect.  
  
That mutual respect - and that respect for others' cultures, others'
religions, others' ethnic background - that mutual respect is what binds us
together and that is what makes us such a successful country. And it makes us,
in many ways, a truly global nation.  
  
You know, you have probably heard me say this before, but it seems a very long
time ago when I was an investment banker working for, I was a partner in fact
of a big global bank, Goldman Sachs. We used to hire more young Australians
than we could ever use in Australia. And a lot of the other big global firms
did the same. And the reason for that is Australians are naturally
multicultural. You’re growing up in a country with so many different groups
and backgrounds and friends who come from every different background
imaginable. It makes Australians naturally very global citizens.  
  
And, as we engage more with the rest of the world and as our society becomes
more engaged with each other, so too, our ability to succeed in this global
economy is enhanced.  
  
And, just think about, the value or the significance, the importance of the
Chinese Australian community.  
  
Chinese people make up our third largest migrant community. In 2014, 447,000
people in Australia had been born in China.  
  
More than 1 million people today in Australia have Chinese ancestry.  
  
115,000 Chinese – mostly young - people are studying in Australia. Now, by way
of contrast, the number for the United States is 300,000. Just think about
that, just think about how much bigger the United States is than Australia,
how many more colleges and universities they have. It gives you an idea of the
significance of the Australia-Chinese connection.  
  
And, there are more than 1 million Chinese visitors who came to Australia last
year.  
  
So a changing China is also changing Australia. And we are changing together,
and in a way, and in a partnership, that leads to more jobs, more growth, more
investment, more prosperity.  
  
Now as we said in the Defence White Paper, which the Minister for Defence
Senator Marise Payne and I released last week, we welcome China’s continued
economic growth and the opportunities this brings Australia and others in the
region.  
  
During President Xi’s visit to Australia in 2014 we formally lifted our
bilateral relationship to a Comprehensive Strategic Partnership, reflecting
the importance both countries attach to expanding our political, economic,
strategic and personal ties.  
  
But there’s a broader and more fundamental point to be made here too. Our
security and prosperity - and the security and prosperity of our region, and
the security and prosperity of every country in our region including China -
relies on a stable, rules-based global order which supports the peaceful
resolution of disputes and facilitates free and open trade.  
  
Now in my discussions with Premier Li and President Xi about China’s approach
to the South China Sea I will continue to encourage China’s leaders - as I
encourage the leaders of all the littoral states -to take steps to lower
tensions there.  
  
President Xi and I both have, curiously, a deep interest in a very old book.
We possibly share an interest in some old Chinese histories as well, but, we
have a very great interest in the history of the war between Athens and Sparta
by the Athenian general Thucydides. And he wrote, arguably, the first history.
Certainly in the Western tradition, the first proper work of history. And, as
you probably know, he said, he related the very complicated events that led to
the war between Athens and Sparta and he said the real reason for war however
remained hidden but was simply this: that the Spartans became anxious about
the rise of Athens.  
  
And, President Xi has talked very wisely and thoughtfully about the Thucydides
trap. How do you avoid the rising power, in this case China, creating anxiety
with others such that you produce tensions and potentially conflict.  
  
And he set out the avoidance of that Thucydides trap as being his single most
important foreign affairs goal, foreign policy goal. And it’s a great credit
to the president how thoughtfully and deeply he’s considered this. And I
completely agree with him on this issue. That is the big challenge.  
  
And so, the point that I’ve made, and I have said the same thing, I’ve been
very consistent about this for a long time, long before I was PM in fact. That
the litmus test of all of our policies in this region, and, obviously,
especially China's as the big rising power, is: ‘is it promoting harmony or is
it creating the potential for tension’.  
  
And so, that's why we see us all having an enormous vested interest in peace
and harmony, peaceful resolution of differences, and ensuring that tensions
are minimised rather than aggravated.  
  
We have, we will all grow together, we will all prosper together, as long as
we maintain that harmony.  
  
So the Thucydides trap is one that we all have a vested interest in avoiding
falling into.  
  
The rewards from China continuing its 40-year journey towards open markets,
rule-of-law, and enhancing the rule-of-law as the president has sought to do,
are well worth the challenges along the way.  
  
They are arguably the greatest challenges that China has faced in a
generation.  
  
China cannot afford to turn its back on that progress - nor would it – any
more than it could after the death of Mao.  
  
And we should remember, as I conclude, the wisdom of Deng Xiaoping when he
went south, around the time that President Xi's father was appointed to
administer Guangdong.  
  
And he reflected on China in the days of the great Admiral, Zheng He, who, as
I'm sure you know, sailed huge Chinese fleets around the Indian Ocean and
through what we’d now call the Indonesian and Malaysian archipelagos. All
through there.  
  
And then after that of course emperors changed policies, and China became
close to the world, and Deng Xiaoping reflected on Zheng He and he said: when
China was open to the world, it was strong. And, when it was closed, it became
weak and then, subject to oppression from foreign powers.  
  
So, openness is strength. Openness to the world is strength. It brings peace,
it brings prosperity, it brings the satisfaction, the realisation, of the
China dream that the president speaks so powerfully and eloquently about.  
  
So, my friends, there has never been a more exciting time to be pursuing
business opportunities with China.  
  
The ChAFTA opens up opportunities we’ve never seen before. This is the most
exciting time in Australian history. It’s the most exciting time in Chinese
history. The destinies of our two countries, the success of our two countries
are closely linked, are tied together, and they depend on your enthusiasm, the
wisdom of our leaders, but, above all, on the entrepreneurship and goodwill of
millions of Australians and Chinese who know that they have so much in common
and working together.  
  
So, I would say: Go for it. Jia you!  
  
I’m really honoured to be here today with Lucy to co-host this parliamentary
breakfast with the Leader of the Opposition Bill Shorten and Chloe. And we’re
here to celebrate International Women’s Day.  
  
As Julie said there are so many of our Parliamentary colleagues and Admirals
and Generals, the Speaker I see. I won’t run through them all but I just want
to especially acknowledge my Deputy Leader of the Liberal Party and Foreign
Minister Julie Bishop. The Minister for Women Michaelia Cash and of course I
see here Bill’s Deputy Tanya Plibersek.  
  
Also, Air Chief Marshal Mark Binskin and all of the leaders and members of the
ADF here as well.  
  
Now, Julie, the work you do at UN Women Australia is important for the future
of the women and girls in our region. This morning we’re celebrating the
extraordinary achievements of women in Australia in our region and around the
world and we acknowledge and thank all those, all of you here and millions of
people outside this room who are working hard towards gender equality.  
  
It is well-known that when a woman is empowered, the whole economy, the whole
community benefits – women that hold up more than half the sky in reality.  
  
Critical to any economy and society is ensuring that we have access to the
ingenuity, the enterprise, the intellect of the whole community – in our
schools, in our workplaces, and in the innovative industries of the future.  
  
Ensuring that that the power of women is brought to bear, is enabled,
empowered, that rich human capital and increasing their participation in the
workforce, must be a critical part of every government’s agenda to secure the
economic future of the nation.  
  
Australia’s best assets, its best capital, is its human capital. Our greatest
value, our greatest asset is not under the ground, it’s all of us, all of you
– 24 million of us – and half of that population are women.  
  
Last year, I should note, our labour force participation rate increased by
half a per cent, the most rapid calendar year growth since 2006.  
  
A key driver of that was the increase in the female participation rate, which
is now at its highest in our history. Almost 60,000 more women than men
entered the workforce in 2015, and the number of Australian women in full-time
work – that’s full-time work – is at a record high.  
  
Earlier this week we saw the gender pay gap trend in the right direction, not
trending fast enough, but the gap has fallen from 17.9 per cent to 17.3 per
cent from an all-time high of 18.8 per cent in 2014.  
  
Now as well as financial and economic security, it is absolutely vital that
women live free from violence and are safe in their communities.  
  
In December, through the Council of Australian Governments, we agreed to
national perpetrator invention standards, actions to limit technology
facilitated abuse, this is abusing the internet, using smartphones as devices
that we seem to be all perpetually connected to – some more than others and I
guess I fall in to the some rather than the others.  
  
We also took important steps towards a national approach to a domestic
violence order scheme.  
  
We announced a $100 million Women’s Safety Package, it was the first part of
the Government’s longer term response to addressing violence against women,
which included practical and immediate measures to keep women safe. And I want
to thank especially Michaelia Cash for her leadership in this regard. Let’s
give Michaelia a round of applause.  
  
Now, UN Women Australia’s theme for International Women’s Day this year is,
“Change her future: Together we can stop violence against women and girls”.
This reminds us of the global challenge and it is a local challenge – one in
three Australian women will experience violence in their lifetime. That number
is far higher for women elsewhere in our region.  
  
It is time to confront this very important fact: society’s attitude towards
women, the value we place on women, the regard we have for women, is directly
connected to the violence that is committed against women.  
  
This is really, I believe, one of the most important facts of all.
Disrespecting women does not always result in violence against women, but all
violence against women begins with disrespect for women. All violence against
women begins with disrespecting.  
  
This is an issue about respect; this is an issue about equality.  
  
Now, Lucy has always made a very powerful point and she’s addressed this issue
and I want to repeat it. Lucy has said and I think we should all agree, the
most important thing we can do as parents, or one of the most important
things, is to make sure our sons respect their mothers and sisters.  
  
You have that little boy – your son or your grandson – and you make sure that
he respects his mother and he respects his sisters and he respects the women
in his life. And if, particularly as a man, as a father, you show respect to
your wife and the women in your life, that boy will grow up ingrained into his
view of the world, ingrained into his view of the world, respecting women.
That is absolutely critical. You know, that is one thing that Lucy is so right
– I’m quoting my wife a lot this morning but let me tell you, she’s very often
right and very mostly right – almost always right!  
  
But this is a very big point, it’s a really big point and you know as fathers
we’ve got to set a good example and as parents this is an issue for mothers as
well. Mothers must ensure – all ensure – that our sons respect the women in
their lives.  
  
Now, as a global leader, we have committed 80 per cent of all aid investments
to address gender equality. This week, Julie Bishop, now one of the six women
in my Cabinet, launched the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade’s Gender
Equality and Women’s Empowerment Strategy.  
  
Using our foreign aid, this strategy recognises that empowering women and
girls is critical to supporting economic growth, reducing poverty, increasing
development and ensuring security, particularly in our region.  
  
International Women’s Day provides us with the opportunity to reflect on the
progress we’ve made.  
  
Gender equality – I repeat – is an economic and social priority for Australia
– it’s good for women, families, business and our economy.  
  
So, I want to ask all of us here today to do all we can to ensure that all
women are afforded equal economic and social opportunities to men. And I call
on men, women, business and government to work together to lead the cultural
change required to ensure that women are respected, are represented, have a
strong voice, are financially and economically secure, and are safe from
violence.  
  
This is an important transformational cause. Julie, I agree it would be good
if we didn’t have to have another meeting like this at some point in the
future, but let me tell you the work that you do, the leadership that you
show, is making a better world for all of us, for every single one of us and
we salute you and thank you for it.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Thank you. Well, there has never been a more exciting time for collaboration
between science and industry here at Bio21. You know, Vice Chancellor and John
Shine, chairman of CSL, what you are doing here and what all your scientists
are doing here is what we need to do more of. What you are doing is building
the economy of the 21st Century. This is what it’s all about. It's about
science, it's about technology, it's about innovation and one of the key
objectives of the Government's National Innovation and Science Agenda is to
encourage more collaboration between primary research, universities, research
institutes, and industry like CSL in this case.  
  
So I'm really delighted to be here when the university is committing another
$34 million to this precinct, where CSL is doubling the number of researchers
it has here. As the Dean of Science was pointing out to me on the way through
our tour of the labs, what this means is not only is more of that great
research by Australian scientists translated into the drugs and the products
that CSL is bringing out to the market, to cure disease and prevent disease,
but also it means that the students, the university are learning more.  
  
They are actually working and engaging more in a real world experience with
CSL. So this, my friends, is our future. This is how we successfully
transition from an economy that's been led by massive investment in mining
infrastructure, from a mining construction boom. This is the practical
demonstration of the next boom, the inexhaustible boom, the ideas boom because
the ideas boom is constrained only by our imagination and our commitment. I
believe both in Australia are unlimited.  
  
As long as you, the scientists of Australia, as long as you continue to push
those frontiers, as long as you keep on your search for new proteins, new
drugs, new products, and as long as we have strong Australian companies that
are prepared to take that work and commercialise it, we will continue to
create jobs and wealth and greater prosperity for us in this, the most
exciting time to be an Australian. Thank you very much Vice Chancellor, thank
you very much chairman for inviting me here. I’m thrilled to be here and
congratulations on the great work you are doing here at Bio 21 in Melbourne.  
  
Thank you.  
  
E&amp;OE;  
  
Well thank you very much Chris and the Western Sydney Futures Dialogue. I
acknowledge the Chancellor Peter Shergold, Vice Chancellor Barney Glover, the
Honourable Nick Greiner, my parliamentary colleagues, Angus Taylor and Louise
Markus and of course the Member for Parramatta in the State Parliament, Geoff
Lee.  
  
Now we acknowledge the Darug people, upon whose lands we meet and we honour
their elders past and present.  
  
And we especially honour the courageous resistance of the Bidjigal man,
Pemulwuy, originally from Botany Bay district, who led the resistance against
British settlers right across the Sydney Basin, especially here in what we now
call Western Sydney.  
  
And I’m also delighted to be here today to deliver this, the inaugural Lachlan
Macquarie Lecture and as I’ve just done, to present the Pemulwuy Prize to some
poets, so that’s good too.  
  
In October Western Sydney University hosted an innovation round table at its
new centre in Werrington, to discuss and contribute to what was to become our
Government’s $1.1 billion National Science and Innovation Agenda.  
  
Now just as innovation and investment is the key to Australia’s prosperity in
the 21st century so it is to Western Sydney’s. And right in the forefront of
that innovation, of that Ideas Boom, has been Western Sydney University and I
want to acknowledge that and thank you all for your contribution to that very
important set of policy initiatives we announced last year.  
  
Now Governor Lachlan Macquarie was a builder. He built schools, hospitals, the
colony’s first bank, the Bank of New South Wales. My forebear, John Turnbull,
was a customer of the Bank of New South Wales in 1817 he borrowed £100 to buy
some land. They don’t have a record of the mortgage and I was always worried
that maybe he hadn’t paid it back but I’m sure he did, I’m sure the bank would
not have forgotten that.  
  
But it was a long association and Macquarie of course built so many
courthouses and churches.  
  
He built the roads to Parramatta and the Blue Mountains and he was a planner,
he planned the towns of Richmond, Liverpool, Windsor and Campbelltown and more
besides.  
  
But perhaps the greatest lesson we can take from Macquarie was his unswerving
belief in human capital.  
  
As the Greek poet Alcaeus said “Not houses finely roofed or the stones of wall
well builded, nay nor canals and dockyards make the city but the people able
to use their opportunity.”  
  
In what may have been the first skills audit, Macquarie looked at the
background of the convicts transported here, ‘emancipists’ as they would
become when they were free, to see how he could use their skills once their
sentence was served.  
  
Francis Greenway, an architect, had been transported to New South Wales after
pleading guilty to forging a bill of exchange. Macquarie quickly picked him
out and Greenway went on to build Macquarie’s Georgian Sydney, the Hyde Park
Barracks, St James’ Church in Sydney, the court houses in Sydney and Windsor
and of course St Matthew’s in Windsor to name just a few.  
  
Western Sydney’s rivers and mountains define its landscape but its people
define its character and give it life, from the original inhabitants,
millennia, from time out of mind and Pemulwuy to a family that moved in last
week.  
  
Our greatest asset is our human capital.  
  
Today Western Sydney is one of the fastest growing regions in Australia with
the greatest potential for even more growth.  
  
It is our third largest urban economy, producing 31 per cent of Sydney’s GDP
and 8 per cent of Australia’s.  
  
It makes up almost half of Sydney’s total population and estimates are that 3
million will be living here by 2031.  
  
It is young, it is culturally diverse. More than one in ten Australian
children are growing up in Western Sydney.  
  
Now these are Western Sydney’s generation of promise. We must educate and
stimulate those young minds, enable them to realise their dreams, unleash
their imagination and so continue to build their and our prosperity.  
  
Employment levels for young people in Western Sydney are lower, however, than
the national average.  
  
And the net number of people who have to leave Western Sydney each day for
work is about 200,000. Unless we act that figure is forecast to grow to
340,000 by 2041.  
  
So because both the promise and the problems faced by Western Sydney are so
complex, the solutions we provide must be coordinated across all layers of
government and indeed the private sector.  
  
Rapid growth is a challenge because of the demand it puts on housing and
transport, the problems of congestion and mobility, the concentration of high
value jobs in only a few places or the lack of local jobs.  
  
Our cities policy will address this by focusing on investment in transport and
urban renewal, increasing the supply of housing and by improving amenity,
making cities wonderful places to live.  
  
We must do this as we embark on the next phase in our economy.  
  
And that is the transition from an economy driven by mining investment, a few
years ago nearly 8 per cent of GDP, to one more diverse, more innovative, more
technologically sophisticated.  
  
The next boom is the Ideas Boom and unlike any other it can last forever,
because it is bounded only by the limits of our imagination and our
enterprise, our ability to dream and our determination to work.  
  
Strong, well connected, liveable cities and regions are vital to support the
high-tech, knowledge-intensive sectors of the new economy, like the medical
research happening at the Westmead Institute, a state-of-the-art facility made
possible through the joint support from the New South Wales Government and the
Commonwealth.  
  
Now in the great book Triumph of the City, the urban economist Ed Glaeser
celebrates the role that cities play in fostering human achievement.  
  
Glaeser calls cities ‘our species’ greatest invention’ because they put people
in close proximity to each other and proximity makes people more inventive and
more productive.  
  
When the Internet arrived many thought it would mean that people would stop
working in one place, they would telecommute, the periphery would benefit from
the centre.  
  
And yet in the knowledge economy physical proximity and connectivity is more
important than ever. We are after all social animals, we are inspired,
energised, indeed fascinated by each other, so cities have become more
important than ever.  
  
Glaeser writes that the central goal for governments in planning and building
cities is to retain and enhance this basic function of cities, improving lives
and creating opportunities for people.  
  
I agree with him. Cities are for people, not machines. Cities must have a
human form because serving humanity is their function.  
  
All of our policies must ensure that cities continue to provide this critical
role in human progress, especially as we face the transition from the old
economy to the new.  
  
Technology and infrastructure can smooth and enable that transition. Both can
unlock potential and in the history of Western Sydney this has always been
true.  
  
In 1880 for example, construction began on the Upper Nepean Water Supply
Scheme, a wonderful blend of old and new technology. It used both the simplest
and most advanced technology of the day, gravity and advanced understanding of
fluid dynamics, to push water up and down hills without pumping.  
  
The project provided water and as we all know, water is the source of life. It
opened up Western Sydney to people and to all the possibilities of the day.  
  
In the same way, the Federal Government’s investments in infrastructure will
open Western Sydney of today to growth and jobs and opportunity.  
  
We are committed to the Western Sydney Airport, it is critical to capitalise
on the opportunities that both the new economy and Western Sydney offer.  
  
Throughout the construction phase more than 11,000 jobs are expected to be
generated.  
  
The airport is expected to commence operations in the mid-2020s and cater for
an estimated 10 million passengers a year by 2030, creating nearly 9,000
additional direct jobs in the region by 2031.  
  
That will increase to over 60,000 jobs by the 2060s, when 82 million
passengers are expected to use the airport annually.  
  
In the longer term there is no question that for the Western Sydney Airport to
be successful and world class, as it must be, it will need transport
connections to the rest of the city and the region.  
  
Under the $3.6 billion Western Sydney Infrastructure Plan, towards which the
Commonwealth is committing $2.9 billion and the State Government the balance,
it will be well connected by roads.  
  
But roads are not enough. World class airports share a common ingredient, fast
and convenient public transport links.  
  
Just last week, Qatar Airways CEO Akbar Al Baker said the airline would not
use the new airport because it would lack high speed public transport links.  
  
Now we’ve been advised that current traffic forecasts for the airport would
not by themselves justify a dedicated rail link until the 2040s.  
  
But we know that a rail link won’t just service airport passengers, the people
of all of Western Sydney would benefit. Transport infrastructure, especially
rail, adds enormous value and amenity.  
  
Neither the Australian nor the NSW Government can commit today to completing a
rail connection by 2026, there is too little known about the route, the cost,
the value created and the sources of funding.  
  
But instead of resigning ourselves to a two-decade delay, let’s lift our
ambitions and ask, what would it take for rail to be operational at the
airport when it opens? And if not then, how soon afterwards?  
  
How do we use a rail link to improve supply and hence affordability and
accessibility of residential and business premises? How do we use rail to give
people better access to quality jobs? How do we increase the rail catchment
through changing land use?  
  
A lot of value will be created. Is there enough to enable a rail link to be
delivered sooner than the traffic at the airport alone would warrant?  
  
Now the Australian and New South Wales Governments’ Joint Study into Western
Sydney’s long-term rail will give us costed options on how soon a rail link
can be developed, how much additional value will be created and how that can
be tapped to accelerate such a transformative piece of infrastructure for
Western Sydney.  
  
We are already setting aside space for rail including station boxes and
approaches at the airport during construction so that the rail link can be
established whether at the time the airport opens, which would be preferable,
or later.  
  
But this is not an airport project in isolation; this is about building a
stronger and more diverse economy in Western Sydney, ensuring more business
and more jobs here.  
  
Road and rail access is important because airports don’t just connect one
place to another.  
  
Better access to the airport allows businesses to get their goods to market
quicker; it breaks down barriers between employers and employees.  
  
In the resource economy we built infrastructure to get coal and gas to market.
In the knowledge economy it is vital that we help connect workers with
business, and with each other.  
  
And the airport will help us do that.  
  
My Government’s $1.1 billion National Innovation and Science Agenda , which,
as I said earlier, was in large part, contributed to and assisted by that
roundtable conference we had at Western Sydney University’s tech campus at
Werrington. That Innovation and Science Agenda will also address the imbalance
between Western Sydney’s growing population and the number of jobs it offers.  
  
This will help Western Sydney harness its human capital by making it easier
for start-ups and innovative small businesses, a number of which, Barney
Glover and I were talking about on the way here that are doing very well in
Werrington, very well in terms of their business and attracting capital.  
  
We want more people to invest in start-ups through tax offsets and Capital
Gains Tax relief, so we will have generous tax breaks – 20 per cent tax
offsets - for early stage investment in start-ups and venture capital.  
  
When you create business opportunities, this attracts people and it builds
momentum.  
  
Western Sydney is uniquely placed to capitalise on this momentum because it
has a great anchor tenant coming – the Western Sydney Airport – in addition to
the superb anchor tenant already here in the West in WSU.  
  
Throughout its own innovative operations, WSU draws the best brains and top
talent in any field – academics, scientists, researchers, and of course, above
all, brilliant students.  
  
We are a people of innovation and ingenuity but we have not done well at
commercialising our research and making money and jobs from all those
brilliant research ideas.  
  
Depending on which measure you look at, we’re either last or second last in
the OECD for academic – business collaboration. That is nothing to be proud
of. That is one of the things that the Innovation Agenda is designed to
address.  
  
And so we’re going to make it easier for businesses and brains to collaborate.
I’m not suggesting that to our exclusive, by any means.  
  
Under the Innovation Connections Program we are investing $18m to bring
businesses, universities and the research sector together to solve problems
and make money from their solutions.  
  
And we are, of course establishing as a criterion for access to Federal
Research Grants, collaboration with industry. It is very important and it is a
major failing in Australia. When you think of how similar our academic and
business cultures are to those of North America and Europe that we are so poor
at this collaboration and connection.  
  
But, we have, I might say, an outstanding new Chief Scientist, Alan Finkel who
is obviously leading the charge in this regard and has been an enormous source
of assistance. The former Chancellor of Monash University, a great scientist
and engineer, in the academic world who took some of his developments,
commercialise them and build a very very successful business. We want to see
more of that because that drives more jobs, more growth, a better future for
our children and grandchildren.  
  
Now, of course, part of the knowledge economy is the continued rollout of the
NBN. It was available to just one in fifty Australians in September 2013, by
June 30 this year it will be available to one in four and two years later,
three in four and it will be finished construction within two years of that.  
  
The NBN is one of the very rare cases where a bad project does not get worse -
in fact, it has got a lot better.  
  
So we are making it easier to bring investment to Western Sydney. And with
capital comes great jobs.  
  
But in our desire to attract capital to a region, we cannot forget that jobs
and business and commerce and infrastructure are a means to an end.  
  
What makes a city liveable? That’s the goal, a liveable city, greater amenity.  
  
In any change of Prime Minister there is continuity and policy change.  
  
My Government’s policy on cities is different from my predecessors.  
  
The Federal Government will no longer be a passive ATM doling out grants for
infrastructure, without being especially involved or concerned about the
consequences of that infrastructure.  
  
We will invest more in cities and we will do so as partners. We do not seek to
run them, but rather to be a supportive collaborator engaging in the
development of city and regional plans and ensuring that everything we do
meets the objectives of improving liveability and amenity.  
  
We no longer, as a government, discriminate between transport modes - we will
support rail as well as road, and have already done so with the Gold Coast
Light Rail extension.  
  
Above all, we see transport infrastructure not just as a piece of road or rail
to get people from A to B, but rather as an integrated investment that creates
amenity, value, liveability, affordability and economic growth.  
  
Budgets are tight in Canberra and in the states, and so we are limited in what
we can invest by way of grants that add to our already too large deficit. But
where we can invest in infrastructure and keep a very long term asset on our
balance sheet, then we can do much, much more.  
  
To invest more we need to start capturing some of the value our infrastructure
creates. That is not new - it’s how railways were financed in the nineteenth
century and many still are today. But it requires governments and planners to
think outside the square, to stop thinking just like transport engineers but
as urbanists, builders of cities and communities.  
  
The building blocks of a great city – a liveable, vibrant city – are simple
but essential: affordable housing, good transport, easy access to employment
and study, reliable communications, energy and water, to name just a few.  
  
Communities need smart, well-designed, walkable density. We should aim to have
more people in western Sydney living in an ever extending zone of the 30
minute city - where people do not have to travel too long to get to work,
school or university.  
  
Strong housing demand in Western Sydney, driven by its rapidly growing
population, shows where the region is already riding the wave of the new
economy.  
  
My Government recognises that the family home is the most important single
asset for just about every family, and it is the largest single asset class in
Australia.  
  
Housing affordability is a complex issue.  
  
But time and time again, we are told that the real problem is not too much
demand, but too little supply. Let’s face it, every dwelling built in
Australia - whoever owns it - adds to our national wealth.  
  
Study after study tells us, as indeed Deputy Reserve Bank Governor Phil Lowe
did this week, that it is restrictions on supply, planning restrictions,
restricted land supply, inadequate transport infrastructure which drives up
prices.  
  
Why is housing more affordable in Brisbane than in Sydney? Well, developers
tell me it is because it takes about a third of the time to get a DA.  
  
And that is why we are tackling housing supply at many levels in our economic
plan.  
  
At the demand level, we are enforcing existing foreign investment rules to
ensure foreign investment in housing is directed to create new housing stock.  
  
We will work on the supply side with States to review planning and zoning
regulations to make housing supply more responsive – through reforms as part
of our response to the Harper Review into competition policy and the
negotiation of bilateral agreements on urban outcomes.  
  
We are also investing in transport projects that drive housing supply and
urban renewal and in future, our investments in urban infrastructure will be
contingent on good urban outcomes.  
  
The right infrastructure creates better cities - smart infrastructure that
generates and uses quality, real time data, improves services, saves our time
and our money. So we have to get better at planning and delivering it.  
  
We should approach infrastructure like the best run companies approach their
business – planning, investing, delivering and operating infrastructure to get
the best results for the best price.  
  
That means being a better partner to state and local governments - working
closely together in the planning stages, ensuring that project outcomes are in
step with our national goals.  
  
New South Wales and the Commonwealth share a strong history of collaboration
on the airport. Planning decisions to reserve lands and to ensure compatible
land use surrounding the airport have been critical in getting us to this
stage.  
  
We will now work with the Greater Sydney Commission as they prepare their plan
for the metropolitan region, including district plans for the areas around the
Western Sydney Airport.  
  
We share a vision for growth for western Sydney, with the airport as a
keystone, a remarkable catalyst for investment and jobs that will transform
the economic geography of the city.  
  
And that means developing a comprehensive strategy and action plan involving
all levels of government.  
  
Such an agreement will help us leverage our investments to realise the broader
economic benefits of the airport and provide an exemplar for further
agreements across Australia.  
  
In the UK these have been called 'City Deals', and despite differences in
context, there is, nonetheless, much we can learn from the UK experience.  
  
The solutions for Western Sydney are in the hands of all levels of Government
and the private sector, so we have to work together to achieve the best
outcome for the region.  
  
And, in that regard, Vice Chancellor, I congratulate the Western Sydney
Leadership Dialogue for gathering us all here to discuss these issues of
national importance.  
  
I urge you to take the title of the conference to heart – the ‘Out There’
Summit.  
  
Be bold in your ideas when considering what Western Sydney’s future looks
like.  
  
A second CBD? Certainly.  
  
A Silicon Valley? Why not?  
  
There are many areas that Western Sydney could highlight to its advantage
—manufacturing; education; health precincts; open spaces; potential tourism
associated with the new airport; the chance to build environmentally friendly
communities from the ground up.  
  
But, above all, you have an abundance of our most valuable resource, our
greatest asset, our human capital. That is all of you, that is all of us -
innovative, imaginative and determined to succeed.  
  
And we, for our part, as your national government, as the Australian
government will do everything we can to do everything to ensure you do succeed
gloriously.  
  
This has been a great conference and I am very honoured to have been invited
here to deliver the first Lachlan Macquarie lecture.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
It is a great honour to be here tonight to deliver this Lowy Lecture and in
the presence of my good friend, mentor, former leader and of course the
deliverer of the first Lowy Lecture, John Howard. So wonderful to be here with
John and Frank you and you Shirley and your family we want to thank you for
the contribution you have made to Australia.  
  
In every respect you personify the ideal of an active citizen. Engaged in
every aspect of your life in business, in philanthropy, in sport, in public
affairs. You’re a true leader. Incurably curious about the world and you have
a very old school attitude to public service. You don’t just write out a
cheque you get involved boots and all. And you’re a dreamer, you’re a big
thinker. You’ve got big visions for Australia.  
  
Whenever we talk it’s about big things. About infrastructure and big
investments and you had a great piece in the Financial Review about those
ideas only the other day and I have to say that I often find that we are very
much of the same mind so you’re an inspiration. And of course the Lowy
institute, in little more than a decade, has become Australia’s unquestioned
leading think tank on international affairs. It’s deepened the debate in
Australia about the world and it’s given us a greater voice internationally.
It really would be very difficult to imagine the foreign policy landscape in
Australia today without the Lowy Institute, it’s a remarkable achievement.  
  
Now Frank you asked us to stand in a moment’s silence in solidarity with the
people of Belgium and showing our love and our condolences for the victims of
the shocking attacks in Brussels. The Belgian Ambassador Jean-Luc Bodson is
here with us today and I say to you Ambassador that we are all united with
Belgium in this battle against terror. Just as our forebears were 100 years
ago on the fields of Flanders in the First World War. We are in the same
struggle and we stand with you shoulder to shoulder. Sympathy, love,
condolences but unflinching solidarity in the face of this global threat. We
are with you.  
  
The terrorist attacks in Brussels remind us once again of the global threat of
terrorism, the need to be vigilant at home, to maintain the security of our
borders, to ensure our laws provide our security forces with the tools they
need to keep us safe and, of course, to continue to support our allies in the
battle against the terrorists of ISIL in Syria and Iraq.  
  
These attacks in Brussels are an unfortunate reminder of how violent Islamist
extremism appears to have reached a crisis point in Europe.  
  
European Governments are confronted by a perfect storm of failed or neglected
integration, foreign fighters returning from Iraq and Syria, porous borders
and intelligence and security apparatus struggling to keep pace with the scope
and breadth of the threat. Bernard Squarcini, a former head of France’s
internal intelligence service, described these factors as creating a
favourable ecosystem for an Islamist milieu.  
  
For all intents and purposes there are no internal borders in Europe, that has
been a great achievement of openness, and the external borders are difficult
to manage. Recent intelligence indicates that ISIL is using the refugee crisis
to send operatives into Europe.  
  
But this scourge of terrorism is not only a European problem. It is global.
Whether it is Brussels or Paris, Ankara or Istanbul, Beirut, Bamako, San
Bernardino, Jakarta, or Sydney - the world is so connected, Australians and
Australia’s interests are so widespread that everywhere today is close to
home.  
  
Al-Qaeda’s core strategy was to undertake high-profile, well-planned, mass
casualty attacks against Western targets such as the destruction of the World
Trade Centre on 9/11.  
  
ISIL’s brand of terrorism uses different tactics. It promotes opportunistic,
relatively unsophisticated random killings which can be amplified online, such
as the use of automatic weapons on a tourist beach in Tunisia or in downtown
San Bernardino.  
  
ISIL is intent on demonstrating a growing operational reach, and this we
believe is because it is hurting in Syria and Iraq, losing 22% of its total
territory and 40% of revenues from its peak in 2014.  
  
The early signs show that, that like the Paris attacks only four months ago,
the bombings in Brussels were inspired, if not planned, by ISIL in its Syrian
headquarters of Al Raqqa. This underscores the importance of our military
contribution against ISIL in Syria and Iraq, in which we have been the second
largest contributor to the Coalition effort.  
  
ISIL’s ability to inspire, let alone direct, terrorism around the world will
be largely eliminated if its so called caliphate is decisively defeated in the
field. Its defeat requires both military force and a political settlement and
we are working with our allies to deliver both.  
  
Now no government can guarantee the absolute absence of terrorism. The terror
threat level here in Australia has been at ‘probable’ since September 2014.
Australia, however, is better placed than many of our European counterparts in
dealing with the threat of terrorism because of the strength of our
intelligence and security agencies, our secure borders and our successful
multicultural society; one that manages to be both secure and free.  
  
It is also why the Government has reformed our national security legislation
to ensure our agencies have the powers they need to mitigate the threat of
terror. Our allies regard our national security laws as among the world’s
best.  
  
The advantage of our island geography, our effective border protection and
counter-terrorism agencies mean we have confidence that we know who is
arriving.  
  
Strong borders, vigilant security agencies governed by the rule of law, and a
steadfast commitment to the shared values of freedom and mutual respect -
these are the ingredients of multicultural success - which is what we have
achieved in Australia.  
  
In the fight against terrorism, we are fully committed to playing a leading
role to finding the solutions to end ISIL in the Middle East, working with our
counterparts in the region, in particular Indonesia and our other ASEAN
partners, and continuing to remain vigilant at home.  
  
However, we must remember to take care not to view our strategic circumstances
solely through the prism of counter-terrorism. Terrorism is an example of the
propaganda of the deed - it is designed to frighten and intimidate. It is
designed to deter us from our normal way of life.  
  
That is why President Widodo was determined to ensure that Jakarta was back to
normal within four hours of the terrorist bombing in that city in February and
why Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel is determined to return Brussels to
business as soon as possible.  
  
Terrorism is also designed to make us turn on each other. That is why my
Government works hard to promote inclusion and mutual respect, ensuring that
all communities and all faiths feel part of ours, the most successful
multicultural society in the world.  
  
I have a deep and personal appreciation of Indonesian President Joko Widodo’s
commitment to promoting a tolerant and inclusive Islam. He says again and
again, Indonesia is proof that democracy, tolerance, moderation and Islam are
compatible. And his powerful rejection of extremism resonates well beyond
Indonesia.  
  
Australia has a vital interest in seeing President Widodo's commitment to
tolerance succeed, as my own discussions with local Muslim leaders have made
clear to me.  
  
Indeed, the Executive Director of the Islamic Council of Victoria, Nail Aykan,
wrote to me to say that the mere fact of my mentioning President Widodo’s
example has helped in combatting extremism and promoting better, more tolerant
and mainstream understandings of Islam and the Muslim world.  
  
This principle of mutual respect is fundamental to our relationships with our
near neighbours -- as indeed it is critical in our efforts to counter violent
extremism in whatever form it takes in our own society.  
  
Now, tonight I could talk at length about many aspects of Australia’s
engagement with the world. But I want to turn the spotlight closer to home.  
  
Fraught as such projections are, I’ll sketch what the next wave of growth in
Asia might look like - and why it promises to be every bit as spectacular as
the one that we’ve experienced.  
  
While the Northeast Asian juggernaut may be slowing comparatively, the rest of
the Indo-Pacific is only getting started.  
  
Villages are being transformed into cities right across the Indian
subcontinent, in Indonesia, and in the rest of Southeast Asia. Their citizens
are connected to the global marketplace and to each other like never before.  
  
It is here in our Asian region that the opportunities are most abundant. It is
here in this increasingly crowded strategic space that the need for
consistent, constructive and creative Australian engagement is greater than
ever before.  
  
But if we are to make the most of these exciting new opportunities in Asia, we
first need to ensure we are resilient and agile at home.  
  
We need first to make sure our industry, our services, our human capital, are
best positioned to compete in these dynamic markets.  
  
Our economy is successfully transitioning from the mining construction boom to
a new and more diverse one – fuelled by innovation, the opening of new
markets, and more investment in Australian enterprise. We’ve called it an
ideas boom, because it is founded in innovation and unlike any other boom it
can last forever, it can last for as long as our imagination and spirit of
enterprise can last. I believe I know Australians, the Australian character to
know that those qualities will always be enduring in our people.  
  
My Government’s Economic Plan to drive economic growth, and create new higher
paying jobs in the future:  
  
With a new innovation and science agenda, that incentivises investment in
start up companies brings more great Australian ideas to market, ensures more
of our research is commercialised here in Australia and ensures our kids learn
the digital skills of the 21st century.  
  
Our defence industry plan, part of the Defence White Paper managed so capably
by our Defence Minister Senator Marise Payne, who is here tonight. This is
investing $1.6 billion, alone, as part of a huge program in supporting local
advanced manufacturing and high technology jobs in innovative industries.  
  
The Defence White Paper is a plan for ensuring our defence forces have the
capabilities, the physical capacities, they need to secure us in the 21st
century. But it will also serve to ensure that as far as possible, every
dollar that can be spent in Australia, in Australian industries, in Australian
advanced manufacturing, in Australian innovation and technology, will be spent
here.  
  
Because we will make, through this plan, Australia more secure, not just in a
conventional military sense but by building up that technology and industry
base upon which our economy and hence our security depends.  
  
We are reforming our competition laws to promote greater protection and
encouragement for small and medium businesses. As you will have seen today we
are retaining the Clean Energy Finance Corporation and the renewable energy
authority but with an amended mandate so they will be investing in Australian
clean energy innovation and technology.  
  
As I said in Paris, at COP 21, that is the key to ensuring we can successfully
combat climate change, technology, innovation, science.  
  
We are driving investment in that regard.  
  
Important institutions are not left unaddressed. As you may have noticed, if
you have glanced at the news recently, we have affected some important reforms
to the way in which the Senate is elected, that is half the parliament. To
ensure it is voters, not talented preference whisperers who get to decide who
goes to Canberra and ensures our democracy is respected and not undermined.  
  
  
  
Now this week, I have ensured that the Senate will reconvene on 18 April to
make a decision on whether to pass another critical economic reform, to re-
establish the rule of law at construction sites, where industrial disputation
has imposed significant costs on construction in this country.  
  
In the Budget on 3 May, we will include changes to the tax system that will be
designed to generate jobs and growth and promote innovation and enterprise.  
  
Every level of our policy effort, every lever, every angle, every measure is
directed at ensuring Australia makes that successful transition to a new and
more diverse economy. To a stronger and more agile economy, one that is better
able to seize the extraordinary opportunities that we are presented with
today.  
  
Here we are in the fastest growing region in the world, a region where more
than half of the world's middle class will be residing before very long. A
pace of transformation unknown, unprecedented in scale and pace in all of
human history.  
  
40 years ago, which seems an eon to most of this very youthful audience, 40
years ago China was not engaged in the global economy at all and today it is,
depending on who is doing the measuring, either the world's largest single
national economy, or about to be the world's largest single national economy.  
  
These are extraordinary times, these exciting times. And to succeed in seizing
those opportunities, we have to be agile, we have to move faster and every
measure we are undertaking. Every policy of my Government is calculated to
ensure that we are better able to seize those opportunities.  
  
So we need to redouble our efforts to keep in step with the Chinese, the
opportunities of the Chinese economy. It is just one of the big opportunities
in our region.  
  
The China Free Trade Agreement is specifically designed to capture those huge
export opportunities that will arise with the empowerment of Chinese
consumers. Growth rates will be lower, undoubtedly, but from a much larger
base. China is managing a difficult transition from an economy that was
driven, fuelled by investment, particularly in infrastructure and real estate
development and they are turning their economy around slowly so that it is
being more driven, more fuelled, as our economy is and as most - all developed
economies are by consumers, by consumption.  
  
Therein lies enormous opportunities. And right across the economy, for
services, soft commodities, every aspect of our Australian economy can benefit
from that.  
  
But we have to be fast, we have to be smart, we have to be at the cutting
edge.  
  
As growth in China continues but at a slower rate than we have had in the
past, India is next in line to offer new and exciting opportunities.  
  
India is one of the greatest political achievements – it has often been
described by Indian historians an improbable democracy and an unlikely nation.  
  
Never before a nation in the form it became in 1947, India is diverse in every
respect - all the world’s great religions, 22 official languages in 11
different scripts – it’s succeeded in creating a political unity through a
common commitment to the rule of law and a settled democratic parliamentary
system.  
  
We wonder at the scale of the Chinese economic miracle and so we should – but
my friends the Indian political miracle is just as remarkable and just as
inspiring.  
  
The Indian economy by 2050 could be as large as that of the United States and
still growing fast, according to Treasury projections. Its working age
population is currently approaching the same size as China’s, with a billion
people aged between 15 and 64.  
  
But while China’s working-age cohort is likely to shrink by 20 per cent by the
middle of this century - at which point its demographic descent could be
steeper than contemporary Japan – this is the point that John Howard has often
made that China faces the prospect of getting old before it becomes rich. John
I think it may become both actually at the rate they’re going. But India’s
workforce will keep growing well into the second half of this century.  
  
India’s investment needs, its voracious appetite for energy and the rapidly-
expanding demands of its burgeoning middle class add up to another historic
opportunity that we must seize, as we have with China and Japan.  
  
Trade with India has not looked this promising for hundreds of years. I should
note that for visitors from Victoria that the foundation of Melbourne was in
part financed by Indian bankers so there is a longstanding tradition of Indian
capital working in Australia.  
  
That’s why, to aid the transition to a new and more diversified economy, I’m
placing a high priority on the conclusion of a Free Trade Agreement with India
- as complex as those talks have been.  
  
India demonstrates why there has never been a better time for a fresh look at
the opportunities of our own region, as our neighbours vault towards middle
class prosperity in this increasingly-connected world.  
  
And there is no part of the regional transformation, however, that is more
exciting to me than the one taking place right here on our doorstep.  
  
Now, they say that no two neighbours are more different than Australia and
Indonesia. In fact I think there are a few people in this room who have
written those exact words.  
  
Well, if this was ever true, then it is no longer.  
  
Today Indonesia is a vibrant democracy with a growing middle class, it has as
many mobile phones as people, and after the United States the nation with the
largest number of Facebook accounts.  
  
Our northern neighbour is already home to a quarter of a billion people,
including 200 million of working age.  
  
Like India, this 15-64 year-old cohort will continue to grow for decades to
come.  
  
Indonesia is on track to become the world’s fifth largest economy around 2030,
ranked behind four other Indo-Pacific countries: China, the United States,
India and Japan.  
  
Now we are doing everything we can to ensure our exporters are as well
positioned to meet Indonesia’s vast market opportunities.  
  
It is a personal foreign policy objective of mine to strengthen those ties
with Indonesia.  
  
Lucy and I visited President Widodo and his wife Ibu Iriana last year - we
found we had much in common - we had a long discussion about planning and
infrastructure. Both President Widodo and Lucy are former Mayors and had
plenty to talk about on urban issues. And my visit with the President was
capped off by a Jokowi blusukan - an impromptu visit to a market, in this case
one with thousands of people really excited to meet their president.  
  
The President, I should say, who showed not the slightest discomfort,
demonstrated his gallantry and empathy for me by joining me when I took off my
coat and tie before I melted in the Jakarta heat.  
  
Since then we have made good progress in providing certainty to our cattle
trade with Indonesia, rudely interrupted – as you will recall, regrettably –
by the Labor Government.  
  
And last week we took a further step in this direction with Indonesia’s Trade
Minister, Tom Lembong, recommencing negotiations with Trade and Investment
Minister Steve Ciobo on a new Comprehensive Economic Partnership Agreement.  
  
It helps that eight Indonesian Cabinet ministers of the past ten years have
been educated in Australia.  
  
Foreign Minister Julie Bishop tells me that she is more likely to communicate
by text message with her Indonesian counterpart, Retno Marsudi - naturally and
instantly - than with any other foreign minister around the world.  
  
In fact they are together today, co-chairing the 40-nation Bali Process and
tackling the vexed cross-border questions of people smuggling and related
transnational crime.  
  
And much of what I’ve said about Indonesia can be extended right across
Southeast Asia, where our relationships are increasingly defined by
similarities and complementarities more than differences.  
  
Now the greatest run of peace and prosperity this planet has ever known -
centred right here in our Indo-Pacific region - was all made possible by the
system of rules and institutions which the United States and its allies built
from the ashes of World War II.  
  
This system has been anchored by the United States and its framework of
alliances, including of course ANZUS.  
  
The challenge is that the tremendous growth in our region affects long-
standing strategic balances.  
  
In the next two decades, half of the world’s submarines and at least half of
the world’s advanced combat aircraft will be operating in our region.  
  
We simply have to do more and work harder to maintain our influence.  
  
And that is what our new Defence White Paper is all about.  
  
It is rigorous and fully-costed. It is the blueprint that shows how we will
develop our defence industries and continue to play our part in providing the
measured balance upon which regional security depends.  
  
The White Paper states that our strategic defence objectives defence are not
only to defend Australia from attack but also include supporting the security
of maritime Southeast Asia and the South Pacific.  
  
It enables us to continue to make substantial contributions to global efforts
to maintain a stable Indo-Pacific region and the broader rules-based system.  
  
We believe it is imperative that differences between nations - whether land,
air, sea, outer-space or cyberspace - are resolved in accordance with
international law.  
  
In this context we look forward in coming weeks to learning the outcome of the
case brought by the Philippines under the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea.  
  
Now, I have spoken elsewhere and at length about China, its history, its
future and what it means for us. So here I will be brief.  
  
President Xi is right when he says China must seek to avoid the Thucydides
Trap - the conflict that is caused when an incumbent power is made anxious by
the rise of a rival.  
  
However it undeniable that China’s actions in the South China Sea are creating
anxieties and raising tensions among its neighbours. They are therefore
counterproductive - regardless of the legal merits on which, of course, we do
not express a view nor make a claim.  
  
Disputes of the ownership of the various reefs of the South China Sea, should
be settled by international law, not by creating facts on the ground or in
this case land in the water.  
  
The extraordinary economic growth of our region, especially China’s, has
depended on a long period of more than forty years of relative tranquility.
There is too much at stake to risk disturbing it.  
  
China in 2016 is part of a neighbourhood of strong and strengthening states,
that I have been describing, not to speak of the continuing and essential
vital presence of the United States.  
  
In our Defence White Paper we not only accept this emerging multipolar
reality, we embrace it.  
  
The Defence White Paper is very clear eyed about our circumstances.  
  
This is why we are not only doing everything we can to work even more closely
with the United States, but we’re also deepening our partnership with Japan
and our practical defence cooperation with countries across the region.  
  
Japan remains the world’s third largest national economy, with a population of
125 million, and a commitment to and continuing to comply with the rules-based
international order.  
  
That’s why we are we are also working assiduously to build and strengthen
defence cooperation with India whose working-age population is projected to be
70 per cent larger than any other nation at the end of the century.  
  
The foundation of our strategic cooperation with India is a shared a
commitment to respect for international law and international norms,
fundamental human rights and the peaceful settlement of disputes.  
  
And it is why we’re looking forward to working even more closely with ASEAN -
our second largest trading partner if taken as a bloc.  
  
As President Barack Obama told ASEAN leaders when he invited them to
Sunnylands last month: “ When ASEAN speaks with a clear, unified voice, it can
help advance security, opportunity and human dignity not only for the more
than 600 million people across ASEAN, but for people across the Asia Pacific
and around the world.”  
  
And we believe that a stable, increasingly prosperous and democratic Indonesia
will be an important partner for us in promoting regional stability and
ensuring that all members of our region play by the rules.  
  
The world has benefited mightily from China’s rise, and no country more so
than ours.  
  
We have a huge stake in the success of China’s economic transition and the
great opportunities it brings.  
  
The China-Australia Free trade Agreement - one of the most ambitious
agreements of its kind and the highest quality free trade agreement that China
has entered into with any comparable nation - means that our farmers and our
services professionals - in tourism, higher education, health care providers
architects, lawyers and engineers - have now been given an inside lane.  
  
And our new free trade agreements with Japan and Korea, and of course the
twelve-nation Trans-Pacific Partnership, are opening the door to new
opportunities across our region.  
  
It would be remiss of me not to observe that these free trade agreements were
negotiated and concluded by our Trade Minister Andrew Robb, who has stepped
down as Trade Minister because he is not running for re-election at in the
seat of Goldstein at the election this year.  
  
Andrew's achievement has been remarkable. There has never been a Trade
Minister in our history that has concluded - that has opened so many doors and
his contribution to our future prosperity is extraordinary, and I, if you wish
I would like to him give him a round of applause.  
  
The new and more complex economic landscape emerging in China and across the
rest of Asia will require more focus and hard work.  
  
The same is true for our strategic environment, which is becoming increasingly
complex.  
  
In both the economic and security realms we have to be agile and resilient and
above all very clear eyed.  
  
This is a time for a very keen focus on our national interest.  
  
The costs of standing still are unacceptable, the opportunities for those who
seize them are immense.  
  
The attitude we’re adopting here at home is the one we’re taking abroad.  
  
The great lesson from the post-war era is that prosperity and peace flows from
open markets, diversity, progress and the rule of law.  
  
The lesson from what we have seen - from what we're seeing from Syria and Iraq
or overnight in Brussels is that none of this can be taken for granted.  
  
Thank you very much  
  
And I acknowledge that we’re here today – all of us – here today gathered on
Gadigal land. We acknowledge your Elders past and present and thank Ann for
her very generous welcome.  
  
And also let’s have a round of applause for the extraordinary Digeridoo player
that we had!  
  
So, Lindsay Maxsted, Chairman; Brian Hartzer, CEO; my colleague, the Education
Minister Simon Birmingham; and of course the New South Wales Treasurer Gladys
Berejiklian and so many others.  
  
Leading lights of business but here today it’s wonderful, I’m honoured to be
in your presence. But above all we’re all so proud to be here with the
scholars.  
  
Really, you the Westpac Bicentennial Foundation Scholars, you represent the
future of our nation.  
  
Your enthusiasm, your intellect, your innovation, your ingenuity – all of that
gives us such confidence in the future.  
  
So I want to applaud you again – let’s do that!  
  
Now, Westpac – or Bank of New South Wales for those who are old enough to
remember it – has been a part of our nation’s history for nearly 200 years and
a part of my family history for just as long in fact.  
  
My forebear, John Turnbull, settled on the Hawkesbury River with his family in
1802 and it was there that they and their neighbours built what is now the
oldest church standing in Australia – the Ebenezer Chapel in 1809.  
  
And in 1817 John was one of the Bank of New South Wales’ first customers,
borrowing £25 to buy 100 acres of land.  
  
Brian has told me he doesn’t have a record of the mortgage but I’m sure he
would if it hadn’t been repaid but banks are not known for forgetting these
things but he did track down the original board minute approving the loan and
gave me a copy complete with John Turnbull’s signature in the bank’s signature
book. I think it was the 13th signature in the signature book.  
  
So that’s a long association and as a little boy living with my father who was
a hotel broker and for much of our time together was a single dad so I spent a
lot of time with him particularly during school holidays. I remember very well
the Bank of New South Wales King and Castlereagh Street branch because that of
course was the publican’s branch.  
  
My father as hotel broker was often making visits there to negotiate with the
bank manager. Sometimes with a bit of anxiety and apprehension, other times
with greater confidence.  
  
But I’ve got a long association through our family with the bank.  
  
It has the honour of being a legacy, an achievement as Lindsay said, of that
great nation builder, Lachlan Macquarie – who not only created some of our
greatest buildings and institutions here in Sydney but also built the social
capital of what was then a very new colony.  
  
He was someone who believed and recognised that the greatest asset were the
people that were, the human capital that he had.  
  
Look at the way he sought out the smartest people among the convicts – Francis
Greenway being of course a noble example.  
  
Macquarie was very much a visionary and a man with a vision that went beyond
the constraints and preconceptions of his time.  
  
Now Westpac has helped millions of Australians build their dreams of
independence.  
  
A home for themselves and their families.  
  
Small businesses that have provided jobs for millions and grown into big
businesses and big enterprise.  
  
It’s employed hundreds of thousands of Australians.  
  
And so this is a momentous anniversary.  
  
It’s a time for celebration.  
  
But it is also a time for reflection.  
  
Banks are indeed businesses but they are unlike any other.  
  
They are a fundamental pillar, a foundation, of our society and our economy.  
  
And they are based on trust – today as much as they were in 1817.  
  
We expect our bankers to have higher standards, we expect them always,
rigorously, to put their customers’ interests first – to deal with their
depositors and their borrowers, with those they advise and those with whom
they transact in precisely the same way they would have them deal with
themselves.  
  
And this is not idealism – this is what we expect and I know it’s what the
leaders of Westpac expect.  
  
Because they know that banks don’t just operate under a banking licence, they
operate under a social licence and that is underwritten by public confidence
and trust.  
  
During the darkest days of the Global Financial Crisis, or what probably
should be better called the global banking crisis, the Australian public –
through their government – provided all our banks with vital support.  
  
Australians understood that we needed to ensure our banks kept trading, that a
strong well-regulated financial sector in Australia was a great blessing, a
great national asset – as we saw in other countries jobs and businesses going
as banks failed.  
  
Now many Australians, as you know, ask today: have our bankers done enough in
return for this support?  
  
Have they lived up to the standards we expect, not just the laws we enact?  
  
Wise bankers, such as your leaders, recognise these questions are legitimate –
dismissing them as bank bashing misses the point.  
  
I make no comments about any specific cases or any specific institutions
including where claims of wrongdoing have been disputed.  
  
But we have to acknowledge that there have been too many troubling incidents
over recent times for them simply to be dismissed.  
  
The truth is that despite the public support offered at their time of need,
our bankers have not always treated their customers as they should.  
  
Some, regrettably as we know, have taken advantage of fellow Australians and
the savings they’ve spent a lifetime accumulating, seeking only dignity and
independence in their retirement.  
  
Redressing wrongs is important especially where it is done promptly and
generously.  
  
Wise bankers, like our host, with whom I’ve discussed these issues on several
occasions and understands these issues very well. I have to acknowledge
Brian’s very keen insight into these matters.  
  
Wise bankers understand that banks need to very publicly demonstrate that
their values of trust, integrity, placing the customer first in every way –
these must be lived and not just spoke  
  
They recognise that remuneration and promotion cannot any longer be based
solely on direct financial contribution to the bottom line. Employees who live
those values, impart them to others and call out those who do not should be
rewarded and recognised and promoted in a healthy banking culture.  
  
The singular pursuit of an extra dollar of profit at the expense of those
values is not simply wrong but it places at risk the whole social licence, the
good name and reputation upon which great institutions depend.  
  
Now all business is about more than just a profit or a new product, it’s about
building opportunities for Australians, customers and staff and making a
greater contribution to our nation.  
  
Westpac is making a really positive contribution through the Bicentennial
Foundation, it’s the largest private scholarship fund in Australia’s history,
and the new ‘Businesses of Tomorrow’ program compliments it magnificently.  
  
It’s great to see this ‘Business of Tomorrow’ program creating those new
opportunities for both existing businesses and start-ups. The program, as
Brian described, will fund global study tours to Silicon Valley, to China,
right around the world promoting new, important linkages, and make available
professional advisers and mentors.  
  
This is absolutely in line with our Innovation and Science Agenda, because we
know, your Government knows, that for us to be successful in the 21st century,
for us to continue to be a high wage generous social welfare net, first world
economy – such as we are today.  
  
If we are going to do that, we need to be more innovative, we need to be more
entrepreneurial.  
  
We need Australians to take risk. We must learn to be prepared to take risks,
tolerate failure and learn from that.  
  
We must ensure that our culture enables businesses of all sizes to innovate,
not just start-ups.  
  
They are firm beliefs of ours in our Government and that is demonstrated by
our National Innovation and Science Agenda, where we are committing $1.1
billion, not simply to promote greater collaboration between the academy and
industry and business, not simply to create incentives for better investment
in start-ups, not simply to ensure that our bankruptcy laws promote greater
business continuity.  
  
Right across those measures, all of them important, is the overlay of changing
culture – a culture that must be more innovative, inspired by precisely the
objectives of innovation and entrepreneurship of which Brian spoke a moment
ago.  
  
As part our agenda, we are investing $51 million, for example, to equip young
Australians with the skills to create and use digital technologies; and $48
million to inspire literacy in STEM and engagement to support our future
skills base.  
  
These skills are essential if we want to grow our national economy and if we
want better jobs, better quality jobs for our children and grandchildren in
the years ahead.  
  
There are more opportunities in the world today for Australian businesses than
ever before.  
  
This is the most exciting time to be an Australian.  
  
This is the most exciting time to be an Australian innovator.  
  
There has never been a greater opportunity in the world today as the global
economy grows and at a pace and a scale that has never been seen before.  
  
But we need to be more agile. We need to be more innovative.  
  
We need to be more enterprising, entrepreneurial.  
  
Those are the values that I believe has inspired Westpac’s customers over
nearly 200 years - that no doubt inspired John Turnbull as he came in to
Sydney, into the city of Sydney with his horse and cart from his home on the
Hawkesbury River.  
  
For the future it lies in innovation, it lies in the skills, the dreams of the
young Australians who are your scholars.  
  
And we recognise that you’re all magnificent.  
  
Brian has talked about Antonio Tricoli from the ANU, whose work around
wearable technology will help prevent melanoma – such a curse in Australia and
a cancer which we are especially subject.  
  
And Michael Hall, we spoke about Michael and Clare Stephens. Michael of course
is working on ways to better analyse a patient’s family history and use that,
the developments of greater processing power and big data to deliver more
customised medication.  
  
And he also mentioned Clare Stephens who of course like all Australians is
focused and fascinated by water. We are after all, as she knows, the land of
droughts but also flooding rains.  
  
Technology, research, leadership, building our social capital as so many of
the scholars are doing working in the area of community services, working,
developing our links with Asia – I was just a moment ago sitting with the
table of your Asia exchange students, Brian and Lindsay. All of those young
men and women will ensure that we grow well and wisely, innovatively and
passionately in the decades ahead.  
  
This is a great time, a great time to be a Westpac Scholar. It is a great time
to be a young innovative Australian and I want to congratulate Westpac on its
almost 200 years and I want to congratulate it too on this outstanding
foundation.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
SPEECH TO THE STATE COUNCIL  
  
LIBERAL PARTY OF AUSTRALIA (VICTORIAN DIVISION)  
  
  
  
9 April 2016  
  
  
  
E&amp;OE...;  
  
  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well thank you very much Greg, and good morning. Another beautiful Melbourne
day – another couple of days in Melbourne, as usual, indulging in my passion
for Melbourne’s trams. And occasionally, on the trams, for a Sydney Prime
Minister I am paid what I think is the ultimate compliment for a visitor from
out of town - when one of the locals asks for directions and not just a
selfie. So, at the outset, I want to thank President Michael Kroger and all of
the Administrative Committee for their tireless work through a very testing
year. I want to pay tribute to our State Liberal leader Matthew Guy who has
absolutely revitalised our Parliamentary team here in Victoria. Matt has
demonstrated that he is a leader ready to take on the serious policy
challenges to get Victoria’s growth back on track. And, today, can I assure
you Matt - and can I assure all Victorians - that there is $3 billion waiting
in the Commonwealth contingency reserve for the construction of the East-West
Link.  
  
[APPLAUSE] That commitment is ready for the moment - not too far off we trust
- when there is a government in Victoria prepared to do the right thing to
make that vital project happen. The East-West is the missing link in the
system that began with the Monash Freeway under Henry Bolte, and City Link
under Jeff Kennett. It is pivotal to this state’s future transport
infrastructure. It’s an investment that will generate thousands of
construction jobs, and our commitment stands toward that important
construction project. Now, today, our division, your division, the Victorian
Division pays tribute to several of our retiring champions: Andrew Robb, Bruce
Billson, Michael Ronaldson and Sharman Stone. All have been ministers. All
have served our Party - and indeed our nation - with great distinction. The
Party’s debt to Andrew is enormous. Andrew was of course the Federal Director
of the Party from 1990 and was responsible for the triumphant 1996 campaign,
which we celebrated last night. But the most profound impact Andrew has had in
his service to Australia has been in his role as the most successful Trade
Minister in our history.  
  
The three new free trade agreements with China, Japan and South Korea, and the
Trans-Pacific Partnership with 11 leading trading economies of the Asia-
Pacific, will create massive new opportunities for Australian business in the
world’s most dynamic economies – and we are already seeing this right around
the country. These open markets, big new open markets are transforming the
opportunities for Australian exporters and the growth of resources, soft
commodity exports, agricultural exports, services, technology, tourism, it is
a formidable contribution securing our prosperity.  
  
Now Bruce Billson, of course, was responsible for small business in our
government. And he delivered with characteristically magnificent gusto our
$5.5 billion jobs and small business package. Bruce is always a passionate
advocate for changing Section 46 of the competition law to incorporate an
effects test better enabling small and medium businesses to compete with the
big end of town - in line with the recommendations of the Harper Review. I’m
proud to say that in my government that policy has been affected and the
effects test will be introduced into Section 46. And it is in no small measure
due to the dogged advocacy of Bruce Billson.  
  
Michael Ronaldson served with distinction in all the roles he has held, but
perhaps most significantly as Minister for Veterans’ Affairs, working with
passion and commitment for the men and women who put their lives on the line
keeping our nation safe. And as the minister for the Anzac Centenary, Ronno
presided over the commemoration of our most momentous anniversary last year -
at Gallipoli and around the world, cherishing and burnishing that heroic
national foundation story. Finally as Special Minister of State Ronno laid the
groundwork for one of the great reforms of our government - the reform of the
Senate voting system, so that from the next senate election it will be
Australian voters who decide where their preferences go, not preference
whisperers and the secret group voting tickets.  
  
I also want to pay special tribute to Sharman Stone, who is stepping down
after tirelessly representing the people of northern Victoria through the good
times and the tough times of fire, flood and drought over 20 years. As a
scholar, as a minister, as a passionate advocate for her constituents in the
electorate of Murray, Sharman has demonstrated her keen intellect, strong
social consciousness and indomitable energy and she will be sorely missed.
Thank you Sharman. Each of these leaders have made stellar contributions to
our national life, and our efforts to make Australia stronger and more
successful, as a society and as an economy -- more innovative, more
entrepreneurial, more resilient, more diverse. This is the great cause of
everyone in our party. The party of enterprise. Our side of politics
understands what it means to back yourself, to invest, to create jobs. To put
everything on the line and when things don't work out, to pick yourself up and
have another go. Our members are from every walk of life – we are a true
grassroots political movement -- from businesses big and small, to farmers,
professional people, the military, police. There is no profession, no
occupation, no line of business that is not represented in our ranks. So when
we discuss our economic plan for our nation’s future, there are backgrounds
and views brought to bear in our party room and in our Cabinet that reflect
Australia’s and our party’s rich diversity. I am privileged to count in my
Cabinet an abundance of talent from Victoria – Mitch Fifield, Kelly O’Dwyer,
Josh Frydenberg, Greg Hunt. And new to the ministry, Scott Ryan, Dan Tehan,
Alan Tudge. And the Nationals’ Darren Chester brings a voice for Gippsland to
the Cabinet as Minister for Transport and Infrastructure. That is a powerful
roll-call -- a big Victorian contingent; a talented Victorian contingent; a
tribute to this party and this division of our party, a Victorian contingent
that contributes great intellectual and policy heft to the task of delivering
victory at the election later this year. And of course I want to acknowledge
and welcome our extended Victorian team: Russell Broadbent, Sarah Henderson,
Kevin Andrews, Michael Sukkar and Jason Wood and of course the newest member
of our team, James Patterson. And let us not forget Mr Speaker - Tony Smith.
Tony Smith has brought a dignity, a calm dry wit --- and when the need arises
a flash of steely discipline -- to that most important national office. Tony
is a great credit to our party and our parliament and our nation and I thank
him for his work. It was Isaac Newton who once wrote: if I have seen further
it is because I have stood on the shoulders of giants, and all of us in
politics should acknowledge that. At a big function last night, which I know
many of you were at as well, we paid tribute to John Howard as we mark the 20
year anniversary of the election of one of the most successful and effective
governments in the history of our Federation.  
  
When I became Prime Minister I said the Howard Government was the gold
standard, and I meant it.  
  
And so we acknowledge the other Liberal giants, led by Menzies, on whose
shoulders we stand -- including from the Victorian Division: Peter Costello,
Peter Reith, Richard Alston, Kay Patterson, David and Rod Kemp, to name but a
few. They are our foundation, of the great values and success of our political
movement.  
  
Now my friends we are at a pivotal moment in our history as we transition from
an economy that has been fired up by an unprecedented mining construction boom
as we transition to the new economy of the 21st century. In this election
year, there is only one central issue – whether we complete our transition to
the new economy or we allow Labor to kill off that opportunity. This
transition is one I’ve consistently talked about for years. It is clear that
in order to succeed, in order to remain a high wage, generous social welfare
net, first world economy, we need to be more innovative, more competitive,
more productive. It is that transition which will deliver our children and
grandchildren the great jobs they deserve not just today, but tomorrow and for
years to come. This is the most exciting time to be an Australian. The
opportunities have indeed never been greater, but success is not guaranteed.
That is why we are directing every lever of government to ensuring Australians
can make that successful transition. That is what the next election will be
all about. Who do the people trust to steer the course to a secure, prosperous
and exciting future? Under my government and our economic leadership we are
seeing strong confidence and growth - 3 per cent real GDP growth last year;
over 300,000 new jobs created - the highest since 2007, well before the global
financial crisis. And the keys to continuing that successful transition are
technology, innovation, investment, infrastructure and open markets So it was
in December we launched our Innovation and science Agenda - $1.1 billion
committed to bring more Australian ideas to market, incentivise entrepreneurs
and invest more in education and research and ensure that our researchers
collaborated more with industry and business, so that more of the fruits of
that research translated in to jobs and opportunities here at home. As part of
that agenda, we are making it easier for start-ups and innovative small
businesses to access early stage capital, making it easier for more to access
government contracts, making it easier for them to take great ideas to market
and to grow. We launched our Defence White Paper –investing $1.6 billion over
10 years in local industry to build skills and drive competitiveness while
harnessing Australian innovation and expertise. And right across the defence
White Paper, in the tens of billions of dollars in expenditure to ensure our
armed forces have the capabilities to keep us safe in the years to come, we
are ensuring in so far as we can that every dollar we spend will be spent in
Australia. Because we build our security not simply by giving armed forces,
our armed forces the physical capabilities, the physical assets they need, but
by building the Australian industries and the Australian technologies that
will create them. So both in terms of the capabilities and the investment, an
industry that knows we are behind them. The defence White paper is a plan not
simply for strategic security but for economic security in the decades before
us.  
  
In the face of concerted Opposition from the Labor Party and the union
movement we drove the China Free Trade Agreement legislation through
Parliament and over 85% of Australia’s goods will enter China duty free as a
result. We have continued to invest in water infrastructure to ensure our
agricultural exporters get the best out of our Free Trade Agreements. We are
supporting record levels of infrastructure through a $50 billion
infrastructure package – and Infrastructure Australia’s rolling 15 year plan
gives certainty to industry, to promote private investment, and ensures
funding is directed to infrastructure that delivers real tandum economic
benefits. Now as part of that plan we are committed to supporting high quality
transport projects here in Victoria.  
  
I spoke earlier of our commitment to the East-West Link. Well that will have
to wait for the arrival of Premier Matt Guy. In the meantime, the Treasurer
and I have written to our counterparts, Andrews and Pallas, to advise them we
cannot allow the $1.5 billion previously earmarked for the East-West Link to
be left sitting idly in the state’s accounts -- or artificially propping up
the Labor Governments Budget. We need to put that money to work. Accordingly,
we are prepared to commit the $1.5 billion held by Victoria, plus all interest
earned, to these land transport infrastructure projects that have been
identified in Infrastructure Australia’s Priority List.  
  
$500 million towards the Monash Freeway upgrade. $350 million towards the
Western Ring Road upgrade; $220 million towards the Murray Basin freight rail
upgrade; All of them requiring a matching contribution from the Victorian
Government.  
  
We will also fund two sub-packages as part of that $1.5 billion to improve
economic development in cities and in regional Victoria: $340 million
collectively towards Rural and Regional Highways promoting safety right across
the state. $75 million towards smaller Urban projects to relieve congestion.
One of the projects funded will be a $10 million Commonwealth commitment to
upgrade The Great Ocean Road.  
  
The aim of all of these projects is consistent and follows the direction and
the planning of our government, driving economic growth, improving
productivity, making it easier for business to move goods around the city and
state, enable Victorians to get where they need to go with less disruption and
inconvenience.  
  
Better transport infrastructure is vital to our economic success.  
  
  
  
In the 21st economy, however, human capital is our most critical asset.
Enabling the skills, talents and ingenuity of our people defines our future
success. That’s why we’re determined to continue to improve workforce
participation. We’re introducing a $3.2 billion child-care subsidy making it
easier for parents, particularly those on low incomes to go back to work. This
should bring the equivalent of 20, 000 full time workers back into the labour
market. We’re investing $322 million in the Transition to Work program to
improve the work readiness of young people aged 15-21.  
  
In telecommunications we’ve eliminated around 3,000 mobile blackspots
nationwide, through round one of our program, with an additional $60 million
invested in round 2. We’re investing $7.8 billion in the NBN this financial
year, which means by June 2018, three in four Australians will have access to
the NBN. And you know after six years of Labor Government, after so many
billions of dollars of waste, after so much fibre-to-the-press release, do you
know how many premises in Victoria had been connected to the network in built
up areas? Slightly more than 5,000. Our government has worked hard to turn
around that abysmal performance. And I would acknowledge which five of my
successors, minister for communications, those of us that have been involved
in big projects will attest; the melancholy experience of life is that bad
projects generally get worse, generally they get a lot worse. We are turning
this very bad project around. We can’t recover all of the money Labor lost but
we are improving it in terms of performance and delivery. As of last week,
385,000 premises in Victoria have access to the network and we have increased
the number of connections in built-up areas by twenty fold.  
  
We are establishing a new $1 billion Clean Energy Innovation Fund, I want to
acknowledge Greg Hunt for his leadership in putting that together. Investing
$100 million every year in cutting-edge Australian clean-energy technologies
and business to ensure we not only drive jobs and innovation but also play our
part responsibly and effectively in reducing carbon emissions.  
  
The Budget we will hand down on May 3 will include changes to our tax system
designed to generate jobs and growth; promote investment, innovation and
enterprise. But overarching all of this, however, is a fundamental truth --
governments at all levels, and all Australians concerned for the future
economic security of our country, have to accept the reality that we must live
within our means. This Budget will not be about a fistful of dollars. It will
be about prudence, fairness and responsibility to our future generations. As
we learned at COAG last week the States are keen for the Federal Government to
raise taxes for them to spend - but have no interest in raising taxes
themselves. The upshot was a revealing moment of great clarity. The Premiers
don’t want to raise taxes to pay for their spending. Well, neither do we. So
that’s clear: we all have to live within our means.  
  
The only way to ensure we have great jobs in the future, to ensure we have the
revenues that will enable us to deliver great schools and great hospitals, is
to have a strong and successful economy. Excessive taxes, excessive debt,
serve as a handbrake on economic growth. Everything we’re doing -- innovation,
competition, trade, investment and infrastructure -- is focused on powering
economic growth. If we don’t keep building constantly on this plan for that
successful economic transition to the new economy, our economic growth will
stall, jobs will go and opportunities will be lost to others.  
  
We hear almost nothing of Mr Shorten’s plans for the economy. All we hear of
are his plans to spend more money… but he can never explain how he intends to
pay for it. and that is the fundamental test for Mr Shorten -- the numeracy
test, if you like that he can no longer shirk: How is he going to pay for his
$51 billion of unfunded promises? Higher taxes? More debt? Or both?  
  
If he cannot come clean on that, it’s a sure sign that he’s learned nothing
from Labor’s failures in six years of government. As Paul Kelly wrote this
week, his is basically the Gillard agenda with a new coat of paint. Bill
Shorten cannot be trusted with this nation’s finances. On so many levels,
Labor under Shorten is a risk to our economic advancement. Right at the heart
of the economic reform we need is restoring the rule of law to the labour
market. And two major pieces of legislation will address this. One is the
Registered Organisations Bill which anticipated most of the recommendations of
the Hayden Royal Commission by requiring unions and employer organisations to
have similar rules of transparency, and accountability as apply to
corporations. You would think that Labor would welcome the chance to restore
confidence in the union movement, so damaged. And yet three times now Labor
supported by the Greens and crossbenchers have blocked this law in the Senate.
They’ve also blocked legislation to re-establish the Australian Business and
Construction Commission to restore and enforce the rule of law in the
construction industry. And, what is at stake here, is economic reform is
critical to the nation’s future. You in Victoria know better than most the
impact of industrial disruption by construction unions. Who can forget the
ugly spectacle of militants laying siege to the streets of the city during the
Emporium dispute? Construction is a vital industry for our future. It employs
more than a million workers. A competitive and productive construction sector
is critical if we are to have the infrastructure of the 21st century at a
price the Australian taxpayer can afford. We’d hoped that after the Royal
Commission the case for restoration of the ABCC would be irresistible. But
Labor, the Greens and most of the cross bench have continued to say no - the
CFMEU they assure us, are fine fellows. Only this week, we had the spectacle
of the Labor member for Bendigo, Lisa Chesters, standing shoulder-to-shoulder
with the CFMEU’s John Setka at a union rally. Have they not bothered to read
the mountain of evidence uncovered by Justice Heydon? Don’t they care about
the impact on the Victorian economy of the intimidation and disruption of the
construction sector through unlawful industrial action? Do they care only
about the CFMEU’s campaign chequebook? As of this week, 108 CFMEU officials
are before the courts with over 1000 separate charges relating to breaches of
the industrial law. Two-thirds of those proceedings relate to unlawful
behaviour here in Victoria. The damage to the economy, the Victorian economy,
the national economy is utterly unacceptable. Only this week, the Fair Work
Building and Construction lodged a claim against the CFMEU over a coordinated
industrial campaign that put at risk the delivery of more than half a billion
dollars’ worth of construction projects, including four hospitals and an aged
care facility. Now that cannot be excused or dismissed by Bill Shorten. This
industrial bullying is penalising the Victorian economy, it’s imposing
unnecessary and mounting costs on the taxpayers of this state. And that is the
risk with Labor. No matter what the findings of successive inquiries, and no
matter how many CFMEU officials come before the courts, they wilfully ignore
this blight on our economic performance and are determined to do nothing about
it. And when they are not appeasing trade union supporters, they favour
policies which will disrupt the economy and obstruct our successful economic
transition. Let’s be quite clear about this: Labor’s policy to increase
capital gains tax by 50% and to ban negative gearing on all assets other than
new dwellings will, and are clearly designed to, reduce investment,
entrepreneurship, materially reduce the value of residential property -
Australia’s largest single asset class, reduce the availability of rental
properties and increase rents. Labor clearly wants people to invest less, to
take less risk, to borrow less, to build businesses less, to create less jobs
– and let me assure you they have the policies to do just that. Shorten cannot
be trusted with the economy. His clumsy protectionism on the steel industry
would put at risk billions of dollars of Australian exports, the integrity of
our free trade agreements and it is no wonder his front bench is already
distancing themselves from his reckless policy on the run. We cannot allow
Shorten, Labor and their union backers to stand in the way of advancing this
nation’s long-term economic future.  
  
Having secured reform to the Senate voting system, we are recalling senators
on April 18 to give them three full weeks, if they choose to use them, to
reconsider their opposition to the ABCC and Registered Organisations Bills. We
will not allow Bill Shorten’s backward-looking Labor Party to use the Senate
to block legitimate and necessary economic reform.  
  
Innovation, technology, investment, infrastructure, free trade -- these are
the keys to unlocking exciting new opportunities for Australian business, the
exciting new opportunities for Australian jobs, the future for our children
and grandchildren.  
  
There is a way to a successful 21st century economy and we are on that road
led by a Coalition Government, we are on that way, but Labor is threatening to
stand in the way and block it. Their policies would block the path to
entrepreneurship, they would undermine investment, they would deter
employment, they would undermine the chance for our children and grandchildren
to seize the opportunities of this the most exciting time in human history.  
  
They are stuck in the past clinging to their old out of date Labor Union
paymasters. We have a strong case my friends, because what we offer
Australians is a clear vision, every measure, every policy, counting towards
the achievement of the great jobs, the great opportunities of the twenty first
century, built on the absolute philosophical foundation of our Party.  
  
Which is after all a party committed to freedom. We believe deep in our DNA,
that the job of government is to enable Australians to do their best, to
enable them to use that freedom, that ingenuity, that entrepreneurship to
invest to employ and to grow. Then they will create the successful future we
all depend upon.  
  
They will create the opportunities, they will seize those opportunities. Labor
is promising a restriction on economic freedom of a breadth and scope we have
not seen in generations. I know that we will keep Australia safe from Labor
when we return our government at the election this year.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
endsE&amp;OE;…  
  
  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well thank you very much Grant, and Jerome Ferrier the LNG 18 Steering
Committee Chair, our host the Premier of Western Australian, Colin Barnett
with whom we were up at Barrow Island inspecting the great Gorgon project
today. Can I also thank you Simon Forrest for your welcome to the land of the
Noongar people, reminding us of their enduring connection to the land and
waters, and all of us thank you for that, we honour you, and we pay my
respects to your elders past and present. And we do so conscious of the
millennia, the tens and tens of thousands of years over which Aboriginal
people have walked upon and cared for this country.  
  
As I mentioned, we were just at Barrow Island and of course Karratha before
that, and there you find those extraordinary rock carvings of the Burrup
Peninsula. Extraordinary work, some of the oldest works of art in the world.
Some of the oldest depictions of people and animals, animals long extinct,
imagery, allegory, a remarkable place. And there side by side with the
technology of the 21st century, and the energy of the 21st century. I want to
extend a warm welcome to all our international visitors, and to those who have
travelled from around Australia.  
  
I am delighted to open this, the 18th International Conference and Exhibition
on Liquefied Natural Gas. This year’s conference theme ‘Redrawing the Global
Map of Gas’ comes as we are witnessing huge shifts in the supply and demand
for key resources, including LNG.  
  
Prices for our key commodities exports including LNG have fallen materially as
new supply has come on stream both here and elsewhere. But volumes have grown
as you know enormously.  
  
Global growth has slowed somewhat as China’s economy transitions and
investment as a share of GDP declines at the expense of stronger and more
sustainable household consumption.  
  
Our terms of trade – the ratio of our export to import prices – are down 34
per cent since their peak. Resource construction activity has fallen from an
unprecedented level of nearly 8 per cent of GDP, to around half that.  
  
Now this was always going to happen - the resources construction boom has
peaked for the time being and has subsided for time being because the new
mines and LNG trains have been or are being completed - but the production
phase will continue as long the world needs energy and steel. I think we all
agree that will be a very long time.  
  
To put this in perspective, we are now most of the way through the largest
terms of trade shock in our history.  
  
The good news is that we will not only survive this cyclical shock - the
largest in our history - but also we are emerging stronger, much stronger, out
on the other side. Last year 3 per cent, real GDP growth 300,000 jobs created
the highest number since 2006 before the GFC.  
  
Now rather than abandoning mines or plugging wells, you have adapted to lower
prices by reducing costs, pushing the frontiers of innovation and increasing
market share.  
  
And one of the greatest examples of innovation, resilience and expansion is
LNG.  
  
This morning we visited the Gorgon Project. I’ve had a personal association
with that since I gave its final environmental approval when I was Minister in
John Howard’s Government back in 2007 so it was wonderful to see it there
built.  
  
The special engineering challenges of Gorgon were driven by the need to
minimise the environmental footprint on this Class A Nature reserve. Cared for
so carefully for so long by Chevron of course under the guidance of the
legendary Harry Butler.  
  
The engineers managed to compress this project to just over 300 hectares, a
tiny footprint by industry standards, ensuring the least possible disturbance
to the flora and fauna.  
  
And they also developed the world’s largest greenhouse gas mitigation
initiative: separating carbon dioxide from the gas and injecting it into a
saline formation up to 2km underground. The largest carbon capture and storage
project. A light step on the landscape, a massive contribution to global
energy needs.  
  
And then, of course off the coast of Western Australia, Shell’s Prelude
Floating LNG project will be the largest offshore facility ever built. It will
be half a kilometre long, weigh six times as much as the largest aircraft
carrier and contain five times more steel than the Sydney Harbour Bridge.  
  
These innovative feats of engineering, remarkable, together with several
others that are soon to come on stream, will make Australia the world’s
leading exporter of LNG.  
  
Every Western Australian knows how oil, gas and resource companies have made
enormous contributions to this nation.  
  
During the decade of rising prices, they delivered the largest investment boom
Australia has ever seen.  
  
At the peak of its construction phase LNG alone created more than 100,000 jobs
across Australia. Now in the production phase the sector is providing
thousands of long term jobs. It has been a remarkable contribution to
Australia through the export of this fuel to the whole world.  
  
Now our Government understands that Australia’s openness to foreign investment
has been critical to unlocking our natural resource wealth. Record investment
of over $400 billion is now translating into increased production capacity and
the real resources and energy capital stock is four times higher than it was
before the boom. It has enabled Australia to cement its status as a world
leader in resource development and to build influence throughout the region.  
  
In the same way that firms operate big resource projects here under an
implicit social licence, the Government also has important obligations, like
preserving and expanding the system of open markets.  
  
We must continue to ensure appropriate regulatory settings are in place, so
that the huge amounts of newly installed capital I spoke of earlier are
utilised as efficiently as possible.  
  
To fulfil our side of the deal, we must do more than simply welcome foreign
investment.  
  
Thats why we are reducing regulation; speeding up the process of environmental
approvals; making the workforce more efficient and reducing production costs
through skills and migration initiatives.  
  
We will continue to ensure that our taxation system encourages investment,
entrepreneurship and job creation. And at the same time we will continue to
ensure that every business - large or small - pays their fair share of tax in
accordance with the law.  
  
We are aggressively expanding market opportunities through our free-trade
agreements with China, Japan, and Korea.  
  
Important also is the Trans Pacific Partnership, the trade agreement we helped
negotiate with 11 other nations across the Pacific.  
  
The TPP takes aim at 21st century trade barriers that many of us perhaps
didn't know existed until recently, such as “data protectionism”, which is
becoming a concern for our resource companies as they analyse terabytes of
data from automated operations around the world.  
  
We know we cannot be complacent.  
  
We know we have to do more to provide a secure and promising and attractive
investment environment.  
  
One of the important levers to secure our nation’s prosperity and economic
security is to re-establish the Australian Building and Construction
Commission.  
  
That’s why we are bringing the parliament back next week to deal with the ABCC
and an associated Registered Organisation Bill.  
  
An efficient construction industry is absolutely vital to our transition to
the new economy.  
  
The additional costs of construction in Australia due to industrial disputes
and often standover tactics by militant unions are a serious handbrake on
economic growth. And we intend to deal with them and that is why Parliament is
returning on the 18th of April.  
  
Our economic plan will ensure that Australia is:  
  
More productive, more competitive, more innovative, and that our kids are
learning the digital skills of the 21st century. Our cities are more liveable
and more efficient. Our tax system is sustainable and encourages investment
and jobs, and we remain and become even more so, the best place in the world
to live, to invest, to realise your dreams.  
  
Since 1989, when the Woodside-operated North West Shelf Project delivered its
first LNG cargo, the LNG industry has witnessed phenomenal growth.  
  
Its been tied to the tremendous economic expansion that we’ve seen right here
in our region.  
  
And these trends will continue.  
  
By 2021, there could be more than two billion people in middle class
households in Asia who aspire to not only the best in food, wine, travel and
education but also the energy to power their new businesses and homes.  
  
Later this week, I’ll be exploring new opportunities in China where gas
consumption is expected to more than double by 2030.  
  
More broadly, Australia will provide about 40% of both China and Japan's LNG
imports, and 25% of Korea’s by 2020.  
  
And our overall LNG exports will treble to around 75 million tonnes by
2020—making it our second most valuable export after iron ore.  
  
Yes, the sector has had some pressure in terms of prices but Australia looks
to the future with enormous optimism.  
  
Gas, which can produce 50 per cent less emissions than a typical coal-fired
power plant, has a pivotal role in delivering energy with lower carbon
emissions, making it a key contributor to global carbon abatement. It is also
critical fuel stock for peak energy demand.  
  
We need to support the transition to renewables by providing peaking power and
fill the gap from intermittent renewables when the sun is not shining or the
wind is not blowing.  
  
It is all part of our broader aim to ensure our energy security into the
future. Gas is a critical part of the environmental agenda for the future to a
cleaner, greener planet.  
  
I talked about the extraordinary projects I’ve seen in the north of WA but the
story is a similar one across the whole north of our great nation.  
  
In Queensland we are seeing a world-first with LNG projects using coal seam
gas as their main feedstock. In just a decade, we have gone from being a
beginner to being a world leader in CSG knowledge and technology, with three
LNG plants now operating on Curtis Island.  
  
In the Northern Territory, Japan’s INPEX is on track to deliver Darwin’s
second LNG project after ConocoPhillips’ Wickham Point came on stream in 2006.
INPEX’s Ichthys LNG Project is effectively three mega-projects rolled into
one, involving some of the largest offshore facilities in the industry, a
state-of-the-art onshore processing facility and an 890 km pipeline for its
life of 40 years.  
  
The resources and energy sectors have been, and will remain, at the very heart
of our economy and our future.  
  
Now as we noted, the industry is currently dealing with challenges caused by
lower prices.  
  
But you respond by innovating, being more efficient and increasing your market
share. And we, like you, know that we cannot afford to be complacent in
capturing future resource investment opportunities.  
  
My government will continue to make Australia an attractive environment for
investment, whilst ensuring the benefits are shared with communities and the
environment is protected.  
  
The opportunities have never been greater for every Australian - living,
working and investing in a world that is faster, more competitive, more
technologically sophisticated than ever before.  
  
I wish you all the very best for a successful LNG 18.  
  
  
  
endsPRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well thank you very much for that very kind introduction. It is always great
to be in Western Australia. For many, many years, I have always appreciated
coming to this state and being inspired by the spirit of enterprise and
entrepreneurship. Your spirit of innovation. Your spirit of practical, get-up-
and-give-a-go, and if it doesn’t work, have another go. That is what has made
Western Australia.  
  
Can I say to you, all of you, Kerry Stokes, all of you here today, every
single one of you - you live in a state with the most formidable natural
resources. That’s true.  
  
Your iron ore is building cities around the world. You built China. I’m going
to China tonight to cities that have been built with steel made from the iron
ore from Western Australia. Your LNG is driving the energy, the industries,
lighting up homes right across the Asia Pacific. But the greatest resource of
Western Australia is not under the ground. It is you. It is the men and women
of this state. It’s your sense of entrepreneurship. Your imagination. Your
energy. Your courage. That’s what makes this state great and that is what has
made it the export powerhouse of Australia for so many years. So I
congratulate you and I’m honoured to be among you.  
  
Can I say to you too that you have a remarkable team in the federal
Parliament, many of whom are here today.  
  
Western Australia accounts for one tenth of Australia’s population, but one
fifth of the seats around the Cabinet table. Just look at the calibre of those
Cabinet Ministers. The incomparable Julie Bishop, our Foreign Minister, Deputy
Leader of the Liberal Party, who makes us so proud to be Australian every time
she stands up for us on the international stage. Mathias Cormann, our Finance
Minister, keeping his steady hand on the financial tiller and shepherding
through historic reforms in the Senate that will put power back in the voters’
hands, not the preference whisperers and back-room dealers. A real blow for
democracy. Can I acknowledge in that, as I regret to say, a solitary island of
consistency and integrity on the Labor side; Gary Gray, who was a great
advocate for Senate reform and stuck to his principles when the rest of his
Party regrettably decided to change their position. Christian Porter, your
former state Treasurer, and Attorney General, brings his intelligence, his
youth, his enthusiasm to our Cabinet table. His experience of what it is like
to operate both at the state level and the federal level, extremely valuable
at the Commonwealth Cabinet table. He brings that and his fresh vision to
Social Services. And of course Michaelia Cash, Minister for Employment and
Minister for Women. She is doing a magnificent job right now, saving family
trucking businesses from being put out of business. Confronting union
lawlessness on construction sites and spearheading our response to domestic
violence.  
  
In addition to that we have here today Michael Keenan, Minister for Justice.
We have Nola Marino our Chief Whip, the first woman to be the Chief Government
Whip on our side. We have Ken Wyatt, our Assistant Minister for Health, and
Senator Linda Reynolds and Senator Dean Smith. You have and we have a very
powerful West Australian delegation in Canberra. And of course my West
Australian colleagues have been quite assiduous in making sure that I know
more about the arcane complexities and sometimes perverse outcomes of the
Commonwealth grants system than perhaps one ever wanted to know.  
  
[Laughter]  
  
In short, Western Australia has been allocated the lowest share of GST of any
state or territory, precisely at the time that revenues have been squeezed, as
the commodities boom has subsided. That’s not reasonable. That is why our
Government has stepped in this week to ensure that WA’s not unfairly treated.
So we have announced this year, as indeed we did last year - $490 million in
extra infrastructure funding for Western Australia next financial year.  
  
And, yesterday of course we announced an addition $261 million investment in
the Perth Freight Link. That’s on top of the $676 million investment in the
Gateway Project, the completion of which was celebrated yesterday.  
  
These are investments in nationally significant economic infrastructure.
Infrastructure Western Australia needs for its successful transition from
resource investment driven growth, to one which is still very dependent and
very reliant on the strong resources sector, but is also more diversified. We
are working with you there to build the infrastructure that will reduce
transport congestion. Drive productivity. Competitiveness. Jobs and growth.
This vital infrastructure will make it easier for Western Australians to get
where they need to go. For businesses to get their products to market. For
less disruption and inconvenience. We know that infrastructure is a key lever
in our efforts to ensure we have the new sources of growth and exports as the
mining construction boom subsides. As it always destined to do. We need every
lever of Government policy working towards that same objective.  
  
Friends, this is the big test of leadership in this country. Implementing the
right policies to continue our successful transition to that stronger, more
diversified, more innovative 21st century economy. In order to remain a high-
wage, generous social welfare-net first-world economy, our priority must be to
ensure that we are more innovative. More competitive. More productive. The
successful transition, which we are delivering, is what will ensure that our
children and grandchildren have the great jobs they deserve. Not just today,
but tomorrow and in the years to come.  
  
That’s where my first economic policy announcement, set of measures, was the
$1.1 billion Innovation and Science Agenda. It will bring more Australian
ideas to market. Incentivise entrepreneurship. And invest more in education
and research. That’s why as part of our commitment, to an additional $29.9
billion dollars in Defence investment over the next decade, through our
Defence White Paper – fully costed – the first since 2000, we are investing
$1.6 billion in initiatives to build the skills, capabilities and
competitiveness of our own Australian Defence industry sector. This will
ensure as much of our Defence dollar is spent in Australia as possible, with
investment in innovation, in the Defence sector, creating thousands of jobs
and bringing tangible benefits to local businesses and communities. And the
spill-over of benefits to the broader economy that you see that you see from a
strong indigenous defence sector.  
  
That is why tonight I am flying to Shanghai with more than a thousand business
leaders. To ensure that we make the most of the China-Australia Free Trade
Agreement, which we brought into force four months ago. The most ambitious
Trade Agreement of its kind, that China has ever signed. If we are to make the
most of these exciting opportunities, in the world’s most dynamic economies,
we need to be highly competitive and innovative. In catering to the demands of
Asia’s growing middle class for high quality services, high value-added
consumer products. Our future is defined by the skills, the talents, the
ingenuity of our people. Our greatest asset is our people. It’s you.  
  
That is why we are introducing the $3.2 billion Child Care subsidy, which
would bring the equivalent of 20,000 full time workers back into the
workforce. It is why we are investing $7.8 billion into the NBN this financial
year. Which means that by June 2018, three in four Australians will have
access to the NBN. Many of you here in this room, perhaps more in this room
than in most rooms, have been involved in big projects. I think you know,
normally, regrettably, the melancholy fact of life is bad projects only get
worse. The NBN was a very poorly conceived project. In every respect a bad
project. In fact it completely stopped in Western Australia. We’ve turned that
around with new management, a pragmatic, businesslike approach. We are at the
point whereby 30 June this year there will be a quarter of all Australian
households having access to the NBN. That has been a very big turn-around.
We’re very proud of that.  
  
We have eliminated around 3,000 mobile black spots nation-wide -mobile phone
blackspots - through round 1 of our program, with an additional $60 million to
be invested in round 2. Last month we established a new $1 billion Clean
Energy Innovation Fund to invest $100 million every year in cutting edge
Australian clean energy technologies and businesses. To drive jobs and
innovation. But also to play our part of the global community in reducing
carbon emissions. The May 3 budget will include changes to the tax system,
designed to generate jobs and growth, to promote investment, innovation and
enterprise.  
  
Overarching all of this however, is the fundamental fact of life. Governments
at all levels and all Australians concerned for the future economic security
of our country, have to accept the reality; that we must live within our
means. The only way to ensure we have great jobs in the future, to ensure that
we have the revenues that will enable us to deliver the great schools and
great hospitals, is to have a strong and successful economy.  
  
Excessive taxes, excessive debt, serve only as a handbrake on economic growth.
So everything we are doing – innovation, competition, trade, investment,
infrastructure – is focussed on powering economic growth. If we don’t keep
constantly building on this plan for a successful transition, our economy will
stall. Jobs will go. Opportunity will be lost.  
  
And so as I’ve indicated earlier, this election year is all about leadership
on one central issue. Whether we complete our transition to the new economy,
or whether we lose that opportunity. This transition is one I have talked
about for years. It has been plain that in this vastly bigger, vastly more
globally connected economy in which we are operating – where the pace and
scale of economic change is utterly without precedent – the changes that we
have seen in our lifetimes have no precedent in human history. For the size or
the pace.  
  
These are extraordinary times. These are the most exciting times with the
greatest opportunities but we have to be far more innovative, competitive to
take advantage of them. Of course they are the strong suits of Western
Australia.  
  
The contrast with our Opponents could not be more stark.  
  
Take, as an example, their plan to ban negative gearing on all assets other
than new dwellings.  
  
The policy is clearly calculated to reduce investment, discourage
entrepreneurship, and reduce the value of every home and indeed every
commercial property.  
  
Labor’s ban on negative gearing does not just apply to residential homes,
existing residential properties. It applies to every single asset class except
for new dwellings. Commercial properties, shares in public companies or in
private companies.  
  
Plainly Labor wants people to invest less, to take less risk, borrow less,
build businesses less, create less jobs.  
  
You add to that of course their proposal to increase capital gains tax by 50
per cent.  
  
Now when we want people to invest more in start-up companies we provide
capital gains tax exemptions, we provide tax incentives. We know if you reduce
the tax on something people will do more of it. If you increase the tax on
something people they’ll do less of it.  
  
That’s been proved true by Governments for hundreds of years. So what do we
say about Labor who is increasing the tax on investment?  
  
Clearly they want to have less investment.  
  
Now as we have read in the reports this week the Shadow Treasurer, was warned
about all of this last year, when he was presented with a report by the
respected economic research firm BIS Shrapnel. One of the two leading economic
real-estate consulting firms.  
  
Despite all of those clear warnings, despite of all the modelling and all the
advice about the damage this would do Labor has pressed ahead with it. All of
this is calculated to have these consequences lower home values, lower
property values, higher rents. Just think about this consequence.  
  
Under Labor’s approach, anyone who owns, an investor who owns a residential
property is only going to be able to sell that residential property to a home
owner. Unless you have an investor who is prepared to absorb net rental losses
out of their after tax income.  
  
Inevitably what will happen is investors will need to have higher rents to get
the same after tax income and of course the stock of rental properties will
contract over time. That is the inevitable consequence.  
  
So you have an extraordinary set of proposals that will drive down property
values and at the same time drive up rents, reducing housing availability.  
  
It is the mining tax fiasco all over again.  
  
Labor continues to stand in the way of the successful transition to a more
productive, more innovative, more enterprising economy.  
  
We see this in their obstruction in the Senate.  
  
Right at the heart of the economic reform we need is restoring the rule of law
to the labour market.  
  
Two major pieces of legislation will address this.  
  
One is the Registered Organisations Bill which anticipated many of the
recommendations of the Hayden Royal Commission by requiring unions and
employer organisations to have similar rules of transparency, accountability
as apply to corporations. You would think that is common sense.  
  
The other is legislation to re-establish the Australian Business and
Construction Commission to restore and enforce the rule of law in the
construction sector. It employs over a million Australians.  
  
Now a competitive and productive construction is critical if we are to have
the infrastructure of the 21st century at a price the Australian taxpayer can
afford.  
  
We had hoped that after the Royal Commission the case for restoration of the
ABCC and the Registered Organisations bill would be irresistible even to our
opponents.  
  
But they ignore the mountain of evidence produced by the Commission. They
appear not to care that the CFMEU has 108 officials before the courts right
now relating to more than 1000 breaches of industrial law. They appear not to
care about the damage to the economy of the disruption and delays on
construction sites across the country.  
  
Having secured reform to the Senate electoral system, we are recalling the
Parliament on April 18, on Monday, to give, ensure that the Senate three full
weeks to consider its opposition to the ABCC and Registered Organisations
bills.  
  
And we will seek the support of the Senate to abolish the RSRT – the Road
Safety Remuneration Tribunal - a body that has an Orwellian name because there
is nothing at all to do with road safety. A tribunal designed to advance the
membership of the Transport Workers Union by putting owner-drivers out of
business.  
  
We must not allow Labor, Bill Shorten, and their backers in the unions to
stand in the way of advancing this nation’s long-term interests.  
  
Now under our Government by contrast we are seeing strong confidence and
growth in the economy - 3 per cent real GDP growth last year; over 300,000 new
jobs created - the highest since 2007.  
  
And Western Australian resource projects are leading the way.  
  
The huge new LNG trains I visited at Barrow Island this week are a stand-out
example - helping Australia to soon become the largest LNG exporter in the
world.  
  
And the same can be said about the innovation of our leading mining companies.
The automated iron ore trains that are coming on stream this year - each 2.4km
long - will be the longest and heaviest robots in the world.  
  
I know it’s been a difficult period of this adjustment for many Western
Australians.  
  
But the untold story, or at least the story that has not been told nearly
enough, is that we are already most of the way through this readjustment.  
  
There is great resilience in this city, and in this state. Western Australians
know the cyclical nature of the mining and resources business - and they have
proved time and again how adept they are at being able to pick themselves up,
dust themselves off, and have another go.  
  
That is the spirit that has kept this state strong and optimistic even as it
has travelled through the eye of the greatest terms of trade storm in this
nation’s history.  
  
It was of course Western Australia and its strength which came to the rescue
of the national economy during the Global Financial Crisis.  
  
And it is this state, with its sheer resilience and commitment to enterprise
that is setting our exports on track.  
  
But none of us - here or anywhere else in Australia can afford to be
complacent.  
  
Success is not guaranteed.  
  
My government will provide the economic leadership to steer the right course.  
  
Our economic plan will ensure that Australia is more productive, more
competitive, more innovative; our kids are learning the skills of the 21st
century. Our cities are more efficient and more liveable. Our tax system is
sustainable and encourages investment and jobs. And, Australia remains the
best place in the world to live, to invest, to realise your dreams.  
  
By using the keys of innovation, technology, investment, infrastructure and
free trade, we are unlocking the exciting new growth markets for Australian
business.  
  
That is our clear vision; that is our economic plan - every measure, every
policy, counting towards the achievement of the great jobs, the great
opportunities, of this the most exciting time in history, the 21st century.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
[Applause]  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Prime Minister I think we should start by clearing the air somewhat but I am
willing to tell an abridged version of this story. How it is that you almost
came to own this great masthead and bear in mind that Kerry Stokes is sitting
right there.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well Kerry was not the counter bidder and there is no doubt that if he had
been I wouldn’t have even tried. No, it was, in the late eighties or early
nineties I think, when the West Australian newspaper group was sold. And there
were two syndicates, there was one that was put together by our very good
friend John Poynton and Hartley Poynton. And there was another that involved
Chris Corrigan, and my own firm and Ron Briley had some money in it as well.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
There was a fair bit of hostility to that attempted takeover wasn’t there?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well it, I don’t know if there was hostility, we felt…  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
I think there was..  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
We felt we had a better bid but of course we had one very big disadvantage
that we weren’t on the home team.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Was that your first experience of West Australian entrepreneurship?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
No not at all, I’ve had a lot to do with business in this state over many
years, in fact a firm that Lucy and I started over here a software and
technology business called FTR which still operates here in Bentley to global
business now. We are long out of it, but it was a, it had the world’s leading
product and still does I believe for digitally managing court proceedings and
hearing room proceedings, it’s a niche product but nonetheless it won the best
exporter of the year award for Western Australia in 1996 so I’ve always loved
the spirit of adventure and entrepreneurship here, it is, this is a very
exciting time.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Can I pick up on that theme, something that you touched on in your speech, you
were talking about innovation and how it might apply to this state. Now you
and I were on Barrow Island earlier in the week. It was, it’s a gobsmacking
project, monumental in its proportions both financially and physically in
scale. But the man who is behind that company, that built Gorgon was saying
only yesterday that such projects would be 40 per cent cheaper if it were
built by Gulf of Mexico nations. What can you do and your government do to
drive down costs?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well I think, this is where the measures like the ABCC are very important,
there is no doubt that the, you know this Andrew because you talked to all of
these businesses and their leaders. There is no doubt that the approaches, the
tactics of the Union movement in many parts of Australia and the construction
sector have added very materially to costs. I think the BCA has estimated that
it adds, the lack of compliance with industrial laws, adds about, at least 35
per cent to construction costs in Australia. So that means that every living
side LNG trains, every hospital, every school, every road is that much more
expensive.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
So to unlock the next big infrastructure surge to workers have to expect less?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I think what you have actually got is an industrial environment that works
against the interests of workers. The truth is, if you had a, if the rule of
law prevailed in the construction sector as it should do, I have no doubt
there would be more construction and more jobs for construction workers, more
cranes in the sky, more activity, it is, this is a, the lawlessness, and
that’s a fair description of what we are facing at the moment.  
  
I mean with 70 per cent of all industrial disputes in Australia are in the
construction sector. The evidence is overwhelming, and Shorten turns a blind
eye to that. He’s a former head of the AWU of course, he says that that’s not
a problem. Well it is a problem, and competitiveness is key, and if you can
build, there is a lot of gas around the world, as the executives at the LNG 18
are reminding us, and they have options. Now Australia has got a lot of
attractions, close to markets, politically stable and all of those things, but
we cannot afford to have such a gigantic cost differential because they have
got options.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Now growth is a big thing, we have heard it from you and Scott Morrison in
recent months, the IMF is actually predicting that economic growth will stay
under 2.5 percent. Now how does this effect government thinking when it comes
to hastening efforts to fix the budget for example?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I won’t argue with the, or contest the IMF’s forecast. As you know we had 3
per cent real growth last calendar year. Scott and Mathias will be working
hard on the growth forecast which will be built in to the budget. We have
strong economic growth here relative to other countries; in fact our growth
last year was higher than any other, any G7 country for example.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
The IMF is still pushing their case for an increase in GST and lower corporate
taxes, are these made impossible by the politics of it, and perhaps by the
state of the budget?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well I’m not going to comment on what’s in the budget.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
You could Prime Minister….  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I know I could. I could just between us you won’t tell anyone I’m sure. But
let me just say something about the GST. We looked as you know at the
arguments for increasing the GST, and there was an argument, there are cases
being made, lots of people have argued we should put up the GST. States have
said you should put up the GST and give us the money. Other people have said
put up the GST and cut company tax or put up the GST and use it to reduce
personal income tax. The challenge that we faced when we looked at it, and
Scott and I in particular worked through, looked at all of these options
carefully as we said we would.  
  
If you were to increase the GST by 5 per cent you would raise around $30
billion of additional revenue a year. But of course the price of most things,
other than GST exempt things would go up. So you would get an impact on CPI,
pensions would go up by, automatically, by around $6 billion.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
So we are not going to revisit that?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
No we are not. Let me just explain, Andrew. So you would have $24 billion
left, but at that point, 91 per cent of people in the bottom 20 per cent of
incomes, and about 74 per cent in the second bottom 20 per cent of incomes,
were worse off. And so by the time you ensured that people in the two bottom
quintiles were not worse off the amount of money you had left was actually
less than half of the 30 you’d raised, so that’s. There’s a number of reasons
for that, happy to explore them. That is why the GST tax mixed with thesis,
actually on close distributional analysis did not stack up.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
On tax cuts I think it’s fair to say you have had mixed messages from both
yourself and Scott Morrison. We had for example Scott Morrison earlier in the
year talking about personal income tax being the higher priority than company
tax cuts, but that has since changed. Can you clarify for us here and now what
is the higher of the priorities, company tax cuts or personal tax cuts?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well they’re all important.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
But one was more important back in January.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I don’t accept your premise and May 3 is not very far away.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
The treasurer said.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Just wait. Settle. It’s not long to go.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Is bracket creep the crisis that we were being told it was a few months back?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well, I’m not given to using language like that. Bracket creep is obviously an
issue and always has been. But again, stunning interrogator though you are, I
am not going to accidently reveal the budget. Yes it is just us.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Okay, well also on tax. You are in WA, how can we not talk about the
Commonwealth Grants Commission. You know, as you were saying before. We have
got a tenth of the population in WA, a fifth of your Cabinet are Western
Australians. It gets 3 piddling percent of the GST take.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
There you go. Well..  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
I haven’t asked my question yet Prime Minister.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
You are as good as Kerry O’Brien his go on for hours and hours. Kerry O’Brien
used to give an editorial and by the time he got to the end I had forgotten
what he said at the beginning.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Well Prime Minister, Western Australians have heard sympathetic noises from
Prime Ministers before about the poor take that GST gets, that WA gets from
GST, and you know I’m sure the state does appreciate the $490 million that it
has received. It is a billion dollars over the past two years. Doesn’t that in
itself prove that the Commonwealth Grants Commission is producing a
distribution that is unfair and unconscionable?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well it is certainly producing a distribution that is seen as unfair in
Western Australia and it is a distribution that is in percentage terms gives
such a low share to this State as to be, in my understanding without precedent
in the history of the allocation of the distribution by the Commonwealth
Grants Commission which as you know is – administers a process called
horizontal fiscal equalistaion.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Don’t bore us with that one, please Prime Minister.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Yes, which is that everyone in Australia should be able to get the comparable
services and schools and hospitals.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
What’s actually happened Prime Minister is that WA has been clipped on the way
up and now it’s being clipped on the way down.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Yes, this has been drawn to my attention.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
It has been I’m sure it has. Okay, now we have…  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
If I could just add to this Andrew, the formula is backward looking. I mean,
Mathias would be able to give a better chapter and verse description of it but
the formula is backward looking. It looks back three years and so you are,
even though the mega revenues, royalty revenues have subsided your GST take is
still being suppressed if you like because of that.  
  
Now in future years you’ll get back to more conventional levels and I think
there is a general view that the Commonwealth Grants Commission needs to be
reviewed, but I have to stress to you that this is not our money. We raise it,
it is all raised by the Commonwealth but it’s shared between the states.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Why should the Commonwealth Grants Commission always have this kind uncle who
slips WA another half a billion? What about this…  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
You’re not seriously suggesting we shouldn’t have done it, are you?  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
I’m saying the system the formula…  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
You’ll lose the room if you do that, I can tell you.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
What about the idea of a floor?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Andrew, again, thanks for the suggestions and the questioning.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
It’s not my suggestion, you’ve heard it many times before.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I’ve heard it from West Australian leaders, Colin Barnett and I had a very
good discussion about the Commonwealth Grants Commission and GST earlier in
the week. I’m very alert to these issues but they will need, they will need to
be put on the table at COAG and discussed and settled between the states.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Well talking about COAG we had a very eventful COAG and in the days leading up
to it. In fact WA was the only one who supported you with your state income,
well an income tax sharing suggestion. Now the West Australian Treasurer, Mike
Nahan, has actually proposed an idea for you, Prime Minister. He says if you
do win the next election he would like WA to run a trial of income tax sharing
as you proposed at COAG. Are you interested?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well it’s something that can’t be done.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
He says it’s constitutional.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Again, with respect to the State Treasurer. Commonwealth Taxes have to be
uniform across the country so you couldn’t have the Federal Government levying
less tax, income tax and if you like making way for the WA Government in just
one state. So that, would not be feasible. But nonetheless, states have got to
consider their own tax bases. There is a lot of opportunity for tax reform at
the state level. The most inefficient taxes in Australia, that is to say the
taxes that have the biggest brake on economic activity, are actually state
stamp duties – particularly on real estate – and if you look at a tax reform
agenda across the country it really needs to involve state taxes. We tend to
overlook that.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Was Christian Porter part of the design team for the idea you took to COAG?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
All I can say to you is we, the proposal that we put to the states for their
consideration which with the exception of Colin Barnett there was somewhere
between very little to absolutely zero interest was considered by the whole of
the Cabinet.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
What I’m asking is was it really legitimate plan or was it just a devious plan
to smoke out Premiers who are happy to accept money but not responsibility?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well, you’re asking me to subscribe to one of your opinion pieces so…  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
No, no, I haven’t actually written that, I’m asking you.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
No, no, it’s important. The states have been coming to us and saying, raise
the GST – not all of them but many of them – raise the GST, raise income tax
and give us the money and we said to them, well how about you raise some tax,
part of one of these big tax bases and if you choose you can raise it and they
didn’t seem to be so much interest or there was no interest actually. So the
good thing about that was it all ended absolutely in agreement, we don’t want
to raise taxes and neither to they hence we have to live within our means. So
it had a very sensible ending as far as I was concerned.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
I’m sure it did Prime Minister. Now next Monday parliament resumes you talked
about it before. Again, I’m asking about your intentions here. What happens if
the Senate does pass the ABCC?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
And the Reg Orgs bill? If they pass both of them then there won’t be a double
dissolution election on 2 July.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Do you concede that will be another confusing sign for voters? I think almost
the entire nation has prepared itself for a double-d. Are you doing this
thinking it’s going to be rejected?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well, every indication we have is that they will be rejected, you’ve got to
remember the Senators voted against the ABCC once. It hasn’t shown any
inclination to pass it to date, it’s actually voted down the Registered
Organisations bill not once, not twice but three times so if the past is any
guide to future performance then you would expect it wouldn’t be passed but
they have the opportunity to pass them and we’d be delighted if they did and
if they did pass them then there would not be an election, at least a double
dissolution election on the 2nd of July.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
A seven week campaign it’s an awesome thing to contemplate….  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well it’s two weeks longer than a normal campaign.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Well it’s still very long, historically. It’s very long for a brand new Prime
Minister, for a brand new team in essence. What’s it going to be about? Is it
going to be about the ABCC or is it going to be about something else?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well the election campaign as I have just said in my speech will be about, I
think the main issue will be overwhelmingly economic leadership. Who do you
trust to successfully manage and lead Australia in this transition of our
economy to one that is more diverse. One that is better able to take advantage
of these enormous opportunities.  
  
We have set out the measures and the plan to do that, we believe Labor’s
policies will actually undermine our efforts, they will actually be blockers
to that progress and so we believe Australians will have a very, very clear
choice of economic leadership.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Bill Shorten is growing in confidence, I must say it is quite extraordinary
that political fortunes have been so turbulent the last six years. He does
think that he’s onto a big winner with the Royal Commission on banks. Do you
think or concede that it was a mistake for the Government, not a government
under you I concede although you were in Cabinet, to cut $120 million from
ASIC?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well ASIC has some very substantial resources, there’s no evidence that
they’ve been dilatory in pursuing wrongdoing in the corporate sector including
in the banks. Indeed the cases brought against banks relating to the alleged,
I hasten to add, alleged manipulation of the bank bill rate BBSW has been
brought by ASIC but can I just say this to you, I made this point in my speech
at LNG 18. We believe, we are committed to ensuring that as far as possible
our tax system is obviously sustainable. It’s got to generate the revenues we
need but that as far as possible it promotes investment, enterprise, jobs.
Growth, economic growth. That’s our commitment.  
  
But, at the same time, it is our absolute commitment that every Australian,
every business whether it is Australian owned or foreign owned has to pay its
fair share of tax and it has to do so in accordance with the law and we have
taken strong measures to strengthen those laws. You know, last year we made a
number of important changes to the taxation legislation to give the ATO
greater teeth to deal with multinational tax avoidance or the opportunities
that are available for multinationals to avoid tax.  
  
I have to note that the Labor Party voted against that bill and Scott Morrison
did a great job in navigating it through the Senate with the support of the
Greens, an unlikely supporter you might think but nonetheless, we got the
numbers and we got it through the Senate despite the opposition of the Labor
Party.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
On the banking Royal Commission do you think the politics are with you here?
The politics are going to be crucial ahead of a long campaign. You’ve said
that a Royal Commission into the banking sector would undermine confidence;
wouldn’t it improve confidence in the banking sector if they are proven to be
not as damaged in their systems as has been promoted?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Let’s just think about it. Of course, there’s been plenty of experience -
we’ve all had plenty of experience in royal commissions. Royal commissions are
no more than an inquiry. They are an investigation and they have the power to
compel people to give evidence and to produce documents. They cannot prosecute
anybody - they can’t really do anything other than to write a report at the
end of the inquiry.  
  
ASIC and APRA for that matter have considerable investigative powers – they
have all of the powers of royal commissions plus they have the power to
actually do something. ASIC can ban somebody.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
It’s not public though.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
They are able to have a public hearing if they choose. They’ve got the ability
– Andrew this gets to my point – if there is a specific issue then the
regulators have the ability to deal with it. And they are dealing with it, as
I mentioned earlier with respect to the bank bill rate matter. What Labor is
proposing is to spend hundreds of millions of dollars on a multi-year inquiry
which would have no objective other than to attack the banking system – attack
the integrity of the banking system and it would have the consequence of
undermining confidence in it.  
  
Now, where there is a specific issue, a specific allegation or area of
misconduct or alleged misconduct the regulators have the tools to go in, force
people to give evidence, get documents and they can then take measures.  
  
See what the public want - they want action – they don’t need another long
inquiry. They want governments and the agencies appointment by governments to
get on with the job and deal with the problems at hand rather than have a,
what would amount to be 2 or 3 years, who knows – royal commissions have run
longer than that. And, a great feast for the lawyers, lots of headlines
possibly good for some newspapers and journalists. But, enormous damage to the
banks which are - I have to tell you – for all of their imperfections, the
solidity of our banks are absolutely fundamental to our economic security.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Can I turn to a happier subject for you, hopefully? Your wife Lucy - I think
there is a general perception that with Malcolm it’s a two for one deal - you
get Lucy who is a dynamo, who is very keen on cities policy and she is highly
successful in her own right. What sort of role will she have and does she have
in policy making and decision making?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well Lucy, as you well know, is a lawyer and businesswoman and she has been
very successful. She was Lord Mayor of Sydney. She was Deputy Chair of a COAG
cities reform panel actually established by the previous Labor government. She
is regarded as one of Australia’s leading authorities on urban issues. She’s
now the Chief Commissioner of the Greater Sydney Commission which is a new
planning body that the State Government of New South Wales has set up to
better coordinate city wide plans. Lucy is previously Chair of the Committee
for Sydney. She speaks on, particularly, urban issues all the time.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Does she influence on you in terms of your decision making….? Always?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Lucy is by force of her intellect and her advocacy – she has influence
everywhere.  
  
[Laughter]  
  
[Applause]  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Well answered.  
  
[Laughter]  
  
Now, Donald Trump?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Yes…  
  
[Laughter]  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
What’s the question?  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Senior Liberals including John Howard have expressed an anxiety at the
prospect of Donald Trump being United State President. Do you share that
anxiety?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Can I say to you that despite your kind invitation I am not going to comment
on any of the personalities involved in the American elections, other than
that I am sure the American people will make a wise decision at the end of the
day.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
He’s an amazing phenomenon. Can you explain without getting into a diplomatic
storm as to why someone like Donald Trump in modern day complex politics can
be so successful?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well, again that’s really getting into the area your job Andrew of political
commentary.  
  
I just, you know, as your Prime Minister, I think it am better that I don’t
engage in commentary on current American politics. It is really – this is a
matter for the American people and there are plenty of very able commentators
who are writing millions of words, almost by the minute about that very
question.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
And lastly, you’re heading off to China today?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I am.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Is it possible to have a sort of robust discussion with China about
international world order without threatening economic ties?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I’ve met with Premier Li and President Xi on a number of occasions now. I met
Premier Li some years ago as well. I have had very frank, very cordial,
friendly, but very open and honest discussions with them. I have not – I don’t
hold myself out as a China expert at all, I might say, but I have had a
reasonable amount of experience in China. I founded, established a mine in
China in the 90s. And I’ve spent a lot time in that period in the Provinces,
you know outside of Beijing and Shanghai – so I’ve got around a bit. I think
the important thing - you know, I’ve made this point publicly elsewhere – the
important thing is to be very honest, very open, and very consistent and that
is how you respect it. And I think we stand up for our position. Chinese
understand that and that they respect that just as we respect and understand
their standing up for their positions.  
  
ANDREW PROBYN:  
  
Prime Minister, you have been very generous with your time. Thank you.  
  
Thank you. As we were reminded by Sergeant Norman Daymirringu and his
digeridoo a little while ago, we are gathered today here and around Australia
on Aboriginal land.  
  
Here in Canberra on the land of the Ngunawal people. We acknowledge their
elders past and present as we do around Australia.  
  
And especially today we acknowledge the service and the sacrifice of the first
Australians who served our nation in our defence forces as Sergeant
Daymirringu is serving us today.  
  
We are joined here today by Mr Kerry Stokes, the Chairman of the Council of
the Australian War Memorial and his wife Christine. Dr Brendan Nelson, the
Director of the War Memorial and Gillian Adamson his wife. Vice Admiral
Griggs, the Chief of the Defence Force. We are joined by His Excellency
Charles Lepani, the Dean of the Diplomatic Corp and the High Commissioners of
New Zealand and the United Kingdom and the Ambassador from Turkey.  
  
We are joined by my Parliamentary colleagues, Senator Parry, the President of
the Senate and the Honourable Bruce Scott, representing the Speaker. We are
joined by the Leader of the Opposition, Mr Bill Shorten and his wife Chloe and
also by Rear Admiral Ken Doolan, the National President of the RSL and Mr
Andrew Barr, the Chief Minister of the Australian Capital Territory.  
  
Thank you all, all of you for being here today. Thank you above all our
service men and women serving today and serving in years past - you have kept
us safe. One hundred years ago today, Australians at home and abroad - along
the far flung battle line gathered for the first time to remember the landing
at Anzac Cove on the 25th of April 1915.  
  
At their training camps outside Cairo, diggers stood in reverent silence as
they recalled the disastrous Gallipoli campaign of the year before. They had
lost friends, brothers; brothers in arms.  
  
And so they reflected on the carnage and the loss and on the heroism and the
triumph of the Digger’s spirit in the midst of the blunders of command.  
  
Many of them had been evacuated from Gallipoli only months before.  
  
They knew that more terrible challenges awaited them.  
  
Within weeks, they would sail for France.  
  
Having experienced the horror of trench warfare on the ridges above Anzac
Cove, they were now to confront on an even more gruesomely industrial scale
the savagely unequal contest between man and machine gun.  
  
This was the hellfire that awaited the Anzacs in their first military
offensive in Europe, the battle of Fromelles.  
  
On that night of July 19, 1916, more than five-and-a-half thousand Australians
died, were wounded or were missing.  
  
Like Gallipoli before it, the attack on the Germans’ position was poorly
conceived.  
  
No wonder the Australian lions felt that they were being led by Imperial
donkeys.  
  
Great victories - decisive and Australian led - were to come. But they must
have seemed far off in the mud and blood of Fromelles.  
  
Military historian Ross McMullin called it ‘the worst 24 hours in Australia’s
entire history.’  
  
Jimmy Downing was one of the survivors. He captured the apocalyptic nightmare:
“Stammering scores of German machine guns spluttered violently… it was the
charge of the Light Brigade once more - but more terrible, more hopeless.”  
  
On this Anzac Day, we commemorate the landing at Anzac Cove, 101 years ago,
the beginning of the Gallipoli campaign.  
  
Shocking as the losses of the Anzacs and their British and French comrades
were, we remember too the immense sacrifice of the Turkish people, defending
their country. In the years to come their leader Mustafa Kemal Ataturk would
comfort the mothers of Australia for the loss of their ‘Johnnies’ just as the
mothers of Turkey grieved the loss of their ‘Mehmets’.  
  
Three new nations – Australia, New Zealand and Turkey - count Gallipoli as a
momentous chapter in their foundation story.  
  
And today we offer our solidarity to the Turkish people as we and our allies
battle together a new war against terrorism. A new war fought both abroad and
at home and in every dimension in the battle space and the cyberspace.  
  
Yet as we continue the Centenary of Anzac—this commemoration of Australia’s
service in the First World War—it’s time to reflect on the impact on our
nation of the extraordinary sacrifice at Fromelles and the other battlegrounds
of the Western Front.  
  
The Western Front - a place of courage, suffering and loss where heroism was
to be found in abundance - wisdom in leadership harder to find.  
  
Of the more than 416,000 Australians who volunteered for service in the First
World War, more than 60,000 were killed—more than 45,000 of them on the
Western Front.  
  
Ours was a nation in arms – there were only five million of us - almost every
family served.  
  
Lucy’s grandfather Geoffrey Hughes was a fighter ace in the Royal Flying Corps
with eleven victories and a Military Cross.  
  
In December 1916, he learned that his brother Roger, a doctor, recently
arrived on the Front, had been wounded. He rushed to his side and was with him
when he died.  
  
My grandfather Fred Turnbull was an infantryman on the Western Front - a
private.  
  
We talked about many things Fred and I - fishing and carpentry, politics and
poetry - but he never talked to me about the trenches.  
  
A lot of his generation were like that.  
  
Fred was gassed but survived, as Geoffrey did, to serve again in the Second
World War - the one that started 21 years after the end of the war to end all
wars.  
  
The calculus of progress on the Western Front was a brutal one metres gained
for thousands of lives lost.  
  
At the Battle of the Somme alone more than one million allied and enemy troops
were killed or wounded.  
  
And at Pozières, Australian troops suffered 23,000 casualties in less than
seven weeks, of whom 6,800 were killed.  
  
Australia’s official war historian Charles Bean wrote, “On that crowded mile
of summit marks a ridge more densely sown with Australian sacrifice than any
other place on earth.”  
  
The Australian soldiers’ unyielding courage - their stubborn refusal to give
ground - won them the enduring gratitude of the people of France.  
  
Those back home who waited for news of their boys fighting in the war in
France were overwhelmed by the loss of life.  
  
Mothers lost sons - sometimes all of them. It must have seemed a generation
was widowed and fatherless.  
  
Australia’s loss of over 60,000 dead is a staggering toll, even today. But we
were a nation of five million. It would be like our nation losing 300,000
lives in a war today.  
  
Australia was a nation in shock, in deep mourning, but still resolved to keep
fighting until the war was won and so it was.  
  
And so it was 100 years ago, that one of our great national institutions, the
Returned and Services League, came into existence. An institution epitomising
the values of mateship, solidarity and enduring respect for those who’ve
served or are serving in our nation’s cause.  
  
We became a nation that does not glorify war - this day does not commemorate a
triumph of arms. It commemorates the triumph of the human spirit, the courage
and resolve of those men and women who 100 years ago and ever since and today
put their lives on the line to keep us safe, free and defend the interests of
Australia and the values of democracy, freedom and the rule of law which we
share and for which we stand.  
  
Throughout history and in every theatre, the Anzac spirit inspires us to be
our better selves.  
  
Yesterday I was with Garry Robinson - a Special Forces Sergeant who was
shockingly injured in a helicopter crash in 2010 in Afghanistan.  
  
Three of his mates were killed.  
  
Garry has overcome his terrible injuries, inspired by the sacrifice of his
mates and the love of his wife Katrina and their children. He’s back doing
what he loves competing as an athlete. Next stop the Invictus Games in
Orlando.  
  
His resilience, his courage, his determination to be truly Invictus, truly
unconquered, is an example, a role model for us all.  
  
I saw that spirit in January in the men and women of the ADF serving in the
Middle East.  
  
In Kabul, working with our allies as we have done for fifteen years to make a
stronger, more secure Afghanistan because a more secure Afghanistan enhances
both regional and global security.  
  
Our commitment to Afghanistan has been the longest in our military history.  
  
More than 25,000 Australians have served there since 2001. Forty one
Australians have died on active service and more than 260 have been wounded.  
  
Our forces in Iraq and the Gulf have been the second largest allied military
commitment in the war against the terrorists Da’esh.  
  
The war against terrorism is fought in every dimension, as I noted earlier but
the single most important priority is to defeat Da’esh in the field in Syria
and Iraq.  
  
We are so proud of the exceptional men and women who are working tirelessly
and professionally to train and build the capacity of the Iraq Security
Forces.  
  
With around 300 Australians and 100 New Zealanders, Task Group Taji represents
yet another significant collaboration between our countries since Gallipoli.  
  
Our special forces have played a critically important role in assisting the
Iraq Government as it begins to roll back the gains made by Da’esh.  
  
Our Air Force are striking Da’esh strongholds in Iraq and Syria and at sea our
Navy is stopping the smuggling, drug running and piracy that fuels these
terrorist organisations.  
  
We remember and we thank today’s Anzacs for their service in the Middle East
and around the world in Australia’s name and in freedom’s cause.  
  
We also acknowledge the dedicated and highly skilled ADF members working hard
to protect our national interests here at home.  
  
No matter where they are, they carry out their missions with professionalism,
discipline and integrity.  
  
Their service honours the Anzac tradition every day.  
  
Their responsibilities weigh heavily on their shoulders but they don't just
carry physical risks. It’s important we recognise the psychological scars many
veterans carry - they need our ongoing support.  
  
And of course while we commemorate our service men and women - we should also
acknowledge the sacrifice their families make while their loved ones are
defending our ideals.  
  
This morning at North Bondi at the Dawn Service, Captain Paul O’Grady of the
Royal Australian Navy spoke movingly of the sacrifice and support of ADF
families. They serve Australia just as their husbands and wives, fathers and
mothers do.  
  
We honour the Diggers of a century ago in many ways but there is no better way
than in supporting and caring for today’s Diggers, today’s veterans and their
families. The memorials we have built and the symbols we have adopted to
commemorate our role in war—not as conquerors but as defenders of
liberty—speak volumes about our great country.  
  
We do not boast of our victories, because we know that they came at a great
cost to us and to others.  
  
We do not parade missiles and tanks in an ostentatious display of might; we
choose to stand as one in a moment of silent contemplation in tribute to those
who fought and died so that we could live in freedom.  
  
We respect but we do not hero worship our military leaders; instead, we repay
our respects here at the tomb of the Unknown Australian Soldier who died on
the Western Front and represents the sacrifice of all of those who die in war.  
  
And today at this solemn and peaceful place of reflection, our national
memorial, the honour roll will become a scarlet sea of poppies because, above
all, we choose a symbol of hope on this day that could be a reminder of
despair.  
  
Too much Australian blood was shed on the Western Front but from Flanders
Field rose a poppy—a delicate flower that pushed through the torn and trampled
earth to become a symbol of optimism and renewal.  
  
This Anzac Day, we thank the men and women who serve and have served. Those
who have brought and who bring hope in times of despair.  
  
Those whose names we may not know but whose courage and sacrifice we will
honour forever.  
  
We will remember them.  
  
Lest We Forget.Twenty years ago today - an ordinary autumn day.  
  
All was serene as visitors took their ease relaxing in the quiet beauty - a
cup of tea in the cafe, chatting to the staff, so proud of this place, soaking
up the history from the guides. Some came to work, some came to relax and
learn. It was to be another calm day, amid the sandstone ruins whose days of
violence and cruelty was all assumed from a far off time, a time out of mind.  
  
And then the horror.  
  
Despite the years, despite the healing, the sense of loss weighs heavily. We
will never be the same.  
  
For those of you who lost loved ones and who witnessed the horror of what
happened here, we will never truly understand the burden you bear and the pain
that you endure. But on this day, especially, you are not alone. Your fellow
Australians remember, we remember, and stand alongside you.  
  
As we gather again today to remember the lives of those who were lost, we
commemorate and honour your resilience just as we mourn the loss of so many
innocents - indeed our loss of innocence.  
  
Thirty five people were killed, many others wounded, many more affected then,
and to this day.  
  
They were husbands and wives, mothers and grandmothers, fathers and
grandfathers, sons and daughters, brothers and sisters - all so beloved. Each
is missed and each is always remembered. We reflect on what might have been
and on the dreams that were never fulfilled.  
  
There is a true sorrow of missing. It is not just the daily absence in your
life and in your milestones; it is the absence of their milestones: their
birthdays, their graduations, their anniversaries, their first job, their
first kiss, their first child, their first grandchild. The ripple in the pond
from the loss of just one life is profound. The effect of so many lives lost
sent shock waves throughout this nation.  
  
The evil that was committed here must never be allowed to overshadow our
memory of each of those individual lives, of their humanity, of their
goodness, of how they were loved and cherished before they were taken from us.
Those are the memories that we hold dear.  
  
Standing against that evil were countless acts of love and heroism. Husbands
died protecting their wives. Mothers died protecting their children. Those who
risked their lives to warn others, who led people to safety, who did what they
could to protect strangers.  
  
And then, there was the heroism of the first responders, the men and women of
the Tasmanian police and ambulance services—the people who willingly run
towards danger when most of us run from it. Every police and ambulance
officer, every nurse and every doctor all our first responders were forever
affected by what they saw that day. And today, we once again offer them our
thanks as we should thank them every day.  
  
John Howard, as our Prime Minister, demonstrated a leadership and resolve that
set a benchmark for the whole world. We are honoured that John is in our
company today.  
  
Many of the relatives of the dead or wounded, survivors too — some still
bearing the injuries from the shooting—felt it their duty to speak at gun
control rallies across the country. They became the voice of the community as
they recounted their pain and sorrow.  
  
The ‘searing intensity’ of their stories became the most poignant and powerful
force for change.  
  
For the generation that held the stewardship of our nation at the time of the
Port Arthur massacre their duty was clear.  
  
A time to mourn.  
  
Yes, but above all a time to act.  
  
John Howard acted, decisively and with the support of his deputy Tim Fischer
and all their parliamentary colleagues, State and Territory leaders, out of
the tragedy here at Port Arthur was written a new chapter in our national
story.  
  
It showed our Federation and its leaders at their best, acting in solidarity
to make Australia a safer nation.  
  
When the wellbeing, the safety of our society was at stake, we were not
Queenslanders or Victorians or Tasmanians, we were, first and foremost,
Australians, in complete national solidarity bound by love and loyalty and
commitment to each other.  
  
The tragedy united us with a rare intensity and it will be forever a legacy of
those here on that day—those who died and those who survived—that gun violence
in Australia, is an exception rather than a brutal, regular reality as it is
so sadly in so many other parts of the world.  
  
They are the reason that Australia was moved to take the drastic action, the
strong action that it did.  
  
That action, the National Firearms Agreement, is now held up around the world
as an exemplar of a society refusing to relinquish control of its peace-loving
existence.  
  
The National Firearms Agreement remains today as it was 20 years ago; and we
will, working together, ensure that the National Firearms Agreement remains a
strong defence against gun crime. And were we can do more, we will, including
through legislation such as we have proposed to increase prison terms for
illegal importation of firearms or firearm parts.  
  
Our National Firearms Agreement has made us safer. The measures we have taken
to crack down on those seeking to traffic illegal firearms into our country
have made us safer.  
  
We will continue to ensure our law enforcement agencies are equipped to deal
with the threat of illegal firearms and that our laws and penalties are
strengthened to protect Australians from those who seek to do us harm.  
  
Twenty years on we realise then that from the heartbreak and the grief of this
tragedy has risen a legacy of a freer, safer nation.  
  
Because, to this nation’s and its leaders’ great credit, we stood up for the
victims of this crime and their families.  
  
Our leaders gave voice to those whose voices were silenced.  
  
To those who survived, we offer our heartfelt admiration for the grace and
strength you have shown. Many of you still suffer terribly – the ongoing
physical effects of your wounds, the emotional scars of your loss and of
bearing witness to such horror.  
  
You, the victims of a cruel hatred, have responded with love. So many of you
devoting your time and effort to helping others.  
  
The Alannah & Madeline Foundation is just one example. Established by grieving
father Walter, Walter Mikac, who lost his precious family here where we are
assembled today. Its vision is a world where every child lives in a safe and
supportive environment. It exists to protect children from violence in all its
form and it does tremendous good for our most precious children every day.  
  
As Prime Minister I am honoured to be its national patron.  
  
It is another example of the light that came from the darkness of that day -
of how we see Australia and Australians at their best in the worst of times.  
  
As Walter says himself, “it is a daily reminder of the good will and love that
is generated when a tragedy occurs.”  
  
To all those who suffered loss that day—loss of life, loss of a loved one,
loss perhaps of faith in human nature—we embrace you in our arms, today as we
did then, and we remember why our nation united in your name.  
  
May you be sustained by the outpouring of love that flows from around our
nation to where we stand with you today stand.  
  
And may the weight that you bear be a little lighter today in the knowledge
that millions of Australians stand with you forever.  
  
We remember you. We honour you. We are with you.  
  
Thank you.  
  
Thank you very much Lord Mayor for your very warm welcome, it’s great to be
here.  
  
This is a room of considerable talent. All of you have got a passion for
cities. Every single one of you.  
  
The Federal Ministers, Angus, of course, who opened proceedings. Paul
Fletcher, Minister for Major Projects and Greg Hunt, Environment Minister - my
parliamentary colleagues and all of the distinguished planners, not least of
whom of course is the Chief Commissioner of the Greater Sydney Commission, my
dear wife, Lucy who is here with her colleague the Deputy Commissioner.  
  
Right across the room, all of you understand that our cities are a part of our
greatest economic assets. This is where most Australians live. 75 per cent of
us live in our major cities and regional centres. This is where most of our
GDP is derived.  
  
Liveable cities – cities that work are enormous economic assets. They are
vitally important to our strong economy and we have some of the best cities,
the most liveable cities in the world. And the Lord Mayor has reminded us that
Melbourne is the winner for five years and no doubt it well deserves that – it
is a jewel of city.  
  
I was reflecting on this as I went up and down Collins Street today on the
tram, as is my want, and I was talking, as it happened, to a man on the tram
called Damien, who is involved with projects with one of the large banks and
he said he’d read about this Summit and he read in the paper about our Cities
Policy and the discussion that was going to ensue and we agreed - this is a
point that the Lord Mayor just made - we agreed that $1 well spent on planning
can save you hundreds, if not thousands of dollars in poor investment if you
don’t know you are seeking to achieve at the outset.  
  
Planning is absolutely critical. The ad hocery has got to stop.  
  
We’ve got to work together coherently, cohesively - federal governments, state
governments, city governments – in developing these city deals which are no
more than agreeing on what we are seeking to achieve.  
  
And what is that? Well, we want to have liveable cities.  
  
We want to make sure that we have the public space, the green space – we want
to have the trees that Greg Hunt speaks passionately about and has done so
much to promote.  
  
We want to ensure that we have the good transport infrastructure - that Paul
Fletcher has been discussing with the State Government here yesterday - to
ensure that people are not spending hours and hours every week, sometimes
every day, tied up in traffic jams not able to get from one place to another.  
  
The importance of the 30 minute city, which is elaborated in the paper that
you have before you – it doesn’t mean of course that we should be able to get
from one end of the city to another in 30 minutes – what it means is that you
ensure that your cities are designed so that wherever people live they can
reach within a reasonable time – 30 minutes – somewhere where they can work,
somewhere where they can study, somewhere to recreate – we’ve got to ensure
that our cities are not allowed to develop in a manner that results, as we
have had, particularly in our own city, my own city of Sydney, where you have
areas where hundreds of thousands of people leave every day to go to work
because the communities they live in have been allowed to build up in an
absence of mind as essentially dormitory suburbs. We’ve got to do better than
that and we can do better than that. The key thing is collaboration.  
  
Now, let me say that one of the most important things that the federal
government can do is stop being an ATM. Historically, the way the federal
government has operated, with respect to urban infrastructure, is to
essentially respond to requests from state governments to support this project
or that project. Sometimes the federal government takes the initiative where
we’ve identified projects that we support. But it has essentially been an ATM
approach without the ability to demand and participate and ensure that you get
the urban outcomes that can be created from your investment.  
  
You see, the critical thing that we need to do is ensure that our investments
make a difference, that every dollar we spend is coordinated with the other
levels of government to ensure that we get those outcomes of better open, more
open space, better amenities, greater liveability, more opportunities to work
close to where you live and of course and a very important issue, more
affordable housing. All of those things can be built in to the plan.  
  
I see my tutor in matters of transport economics, Peter Newman is here. Let me
say to you, the point that Peter has made over many years is a vitally
important one and this is where we need really a cultural gear change in the
way we look at urban infrastructure.  
  
States have tended to look - state transport departments have tended to look
at linear transport infrastructure, especially the rail lines, as essentially
being a challenge of how to get people from A to B. Without recognising that
transport infrastructure, and this applies to roads, of course, as well as
rail, transport infrastructure changes a community. It can change it for good
or ill. It can unite a community or it can divide it. It can create enormous
value, enormous value in real estate, enormous value in added amenity.  
  
It has to be looked at in a complete urban context, this is why we have in
response from requests from the Victorian Government to invest in the
Melbourne Metro, we have welcomed the project, we do welcome the project, but
the first thing we said to them was we want to make sure that the work is done
to identify how this project will create value in Melbourne, and how some of
that can be captured, can be brought to account to defray the cost or support
the cost of constructing the rail line. In other words, how can we leverage
the taxpayer’s dollar to get a better urban outcome from the investment?  
  
And that is not a new idea - it’s a very old one. It is actually how many rail
lines, rail networks were funded to date, and in facts it’s how almost all of
them were funded when the railways began, some of the biggest land owners in
Japan and indeed North America are still railway companies.  
  
So that’s why we have allocated $50 million to project development to support
the work of a financing team, a specialist financing team that will assemble
in the Federal Government to build the business cases and project delivery
models applying innovative finance approaches and value capture.  
  
Now, while we genuinely need to invest in more Infrastructure, Infrastructure
Australia recently reported what Lucy’s father, Tom Hughes QC, would call a
penetrating glimpse of the obvious, but we recently reported what successive
reviews have told us, that throwing more money at the problem won't solve it.  
  
Change can only be delivered by addressing the policy and regulatory settings
through which cities and infrastructure are governed, planned, funded,
constructed and operated. And much of those reforms must be undertaken by the
states and territories and local government. We're not suggesting the Federal
Government should be running cities. So this is why the city deals are so
important.  
  
They would be a contract between all the stakeholders, government, business,
industry and the community, an agreement, if you like, that identifies a clear
and measurable goal for a city or a region, and agrees on a coordinated
investment plan. They'd ensure that our financial contributions, for example,
a more strategic and incentivised reform.  
  
Reforms to improve strategic planning, strengthen city governments, unblock
impediments to housing supply in planning systems, and enable more competition
in the provision of goods and services across boundaries.  
  
And on this issue of planning, let me offer another penetrating glimpse of the
obvious. There's been a lot of debate about housing affordability, as there
should be, it's a huge issue. But the one thing we all know, and this again
has been the subject of every analysis for years, including from the Reserve
Bank. Why is housing less affordable than we would like it?  
  
Because we aren't building enough dwellings. It is a supply problem. The
supply is not keeping up with the demand and that is the challenge and one of
the achievements that we can deliver is by agreeing with state and local
government in a city deal, on measures that will ensure that planning does
accommodate the need for additional dwellings, and often that ability of the
national government to provide some leverage, some leadership, will make it
easier for state governments and local governments to deal with their own
stakeholders.  
  
Now, this is early days in the development of this - of this policy. We're
releasing this today and we are seeking to work in a very collaborative way
and we're looking forward to the input from you. But you can see already that
the Australian Government, under my leadership as Prime Minister, is charting
a very different course in its approach to cities than my predecessors have
done.  
  
For example, we are strongly supporting public transport infrastructure. As
you know, we've already provided support to the extension of the Gold Coast
light rail, a really transformative piece of rail infrastructure on that very
long, strung out urban development of the Gold Coast, which clearly needed a
link to tie it together and that has added enormously to the amenity and
indeed, as the Mayor reminds me, the rateable value of the properties along
the route.  
  
I can confirm, as the Western Australian Premier mentioned yesterday, noted
yesterday, that we will be partnering with the West Australian Government in
their Forrestfield airport link. This is a rail link to the Perth airport. So
we will investment $490 million into that and that will provide a quick and
efficient connection between the CBD and the Perth airport, improving the
public transport network, relieving traffic congestion.  
  
It's not just a transport project. The airport link boosts growth, it promotes
new and existing housing and employment centres, around three new stations and
transport exchanges, including at Belmont, adjacent to the airport, the
international terminal and Forrestfield. And it will create additional value
to the airport, and to surrounding centres made more accessible by the link.  
  
To realise the full value of the investment, we're inviting the West
Australian Government to make this the centrepiece of a new city deal, to
harness our collective strength and resources and partner with the private
sector to improve the liveability, accessibility and productivity of Perth and
the state economy.  
  
So the other element that I hope you will be discussing, I'm sure you will be
discussing today, is the way in which we can make better use of that
technology to solve the challenges we face in planning our cities. Now we’ve
already seen disruptive technology transform transport through Uber, and other
car share applications. What other city problems can we find the answer for
through similar innovation?  
  
A better use of a wide range of data already being collected will also
transform the way we plan to deliver the infrastructure that is vital for
better cities. Whether its date or related to traffic marking spaces, travel
times, public transport timetables, all of these make an enormous difference.  
  
I’ll give you an example from my own experience. As you know I am keen catcher
of trains, trams, ferries, and other public transport. Now if you go back 10,
20 years in the transport literature you would find people saying that for a
public transport system to be really effective, well used, you need to have
services sufficiently regular that somebody doesn’t have to look at a
timetable to know when the next train, or tram or bus or ferry is coming.
Whether it is five minutes or ten minutes, it’s obviously not every half hour.
Okay that is fair enough.  
  
Look at what technology has done. Nowadays because I live in Sydney I use the
TripView application I can see at any time where every bus and every train is,
and tram is in real time. So I know whether the 9.04 train is on time or if it
is three minutes late. That is not so important with trains they tend to be
fairly reliable but with buses it is very relevant. Your bus could be early or
it could late.  
  
It’s a dynamic operating environment with congestion. All of that makes an
enormous difference. That one application which cost the State Government
nothing, has added enormously to ride ship and to commuter amenity.  
  
What did government have to do to deliver that? Simply create an open API for
its real time data. So open data is the key. I might say in terms of Federal
Government’s open data, which obviously does not include public transport
schedules, about 85 per cent of all of the data sets that are now made open by
the Federal Government were made since the election of the Coalition and my
incoming Communication Minister. It is a great passion of mine - open data.  
  
It's a great passion of mine, open data, and then we can make available the
more we can then rely on the ingenuity of application developers to provide
the solutions for our residents.  
  
So these are exciting times for cities.  
  
You know, Ed Glaeser the great American economist, wrote a book, a very famous
book recently which Lucy and I have given to many people, called the Triumph
of the City. And what Glaeser identifies there is something of a paradox.  
  
When the internet arrived 20 plus years ago, a lot of people said this will be
the death of cities. People won't want to go into the city anymore everyone
will stay spread out, you know, telecommuting, working online, people will be
on an island or in a remote mountain site somewhere, a mountaintop somewhere.  
  
Yet what has happened is that the arrival of this extraordinary transformative
technology, and it is, if you think about it, in the space of a generation,
we've got to the point where most of the people in the developed world and
shortly most of the people in the whole world will have in their pocket a
smart phone which has the processing power of a 1990s super computer and the
ability to connect to anyone and just about anyone and just about everything
in the world. This is an extraordinary transformation. That's happened in a
generation.  
  
But what it has done is actually made cities and centres, whether they are big
cities like Melbourne or regional centres, it's made them more important than
ever. This is the point that Glaeser identifies, the triumph of the city,
because at the end of the day, technology cannot defeat our humanity.  
  
By our nature, we are social animals. We are at our most productive, our most
creative, our most innovative when we are together, when we get together and
that is why an efficient city, a liveable city, is absolutely critical to the
development, to the growth of our economy.  
  
You see, every lever of my Government's policy, whether it's our cities
policy, whether it is in our innovation policy, whether it is in our
investment in defence industries, which is investing massive investments in
the most cutting edge technologies in the world today.  
  
All of those investments, all of those policies, the tax policies you will see
next week in the budget, all of that is pulling in one direction which is
greater opportunities, stronger growth, more and better jobs because these are
the most exciting times in human history.  
  
They - this is a time of unprecedented change. We have never seen in all of
human history, such change at a pace and scale of the kind we have today. The
transformation, the internet, all in a generation. China 40 years ago not part
of the global economy at all, now by most measures, the second largest economy
in the world and shortly to be the largest.  
  
This has all happened in the twinkling of an eye in the time frame of history.
It's happened in the lifetimes of almost everybody in this room and that pace
of change requires great cities, liveable cities with great connectivity that
enable people to get together, to innovate, to work, to enjoy their lives and
enjoy their work in a way that draws the talent in.  
  
You see, Robert put his finger on a very important point. He discarded, he
disabused us of any notion that he would be a marriage consultant. He said he
couldn't help us choosing our life partner. That's good to know, Your Worship,
most of us are already long committed, I imagine, so we don't need your
assistance. But he made the point; a big question is where do I want to live?
And in this global economy, the world's talent have many options.  
  
Our liveable cities, this brilliant city, my city, Sydney, all of the great
cities and centres around Australia are incredible magnets for talent. Magnets
for talent to come and magnets for talent to stay. We can make them greater
still.  
  
Working together, focused on ensuring that we deliver smart cities, liveable
cities, and that every dollar we spend as Governments is based on sound
planning, long-range planning and that we know what we're seeking to achieve;
liveability, amenity, strong growth, opportunity.  
  
These are all the things that we can achieve with good city planning and I
know surveying all the expertise in this room, this summit will come up with
some great conclusions, which will be of enormous assistance to the Government
as we further promote the greatest cities in the world here, in Australia.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
This is the most exciting time in history to be an Australian. The
opportunities have never been greater so the challenge for us is to take
advantage of them.  
  
Success is not guaranteed.  
  
Our economy remains fundamentally strong. In the last calendar year, our
economy grew at 3 per cent — stronger than any of the G7 nations. And the
number of Australians in work increased by around 300,000 — the highest growth
since 2007.  
  
Our plan is to make the economy stronger still, so we can generate revenues we
need to provide high-quality services and infrastructure.  
  
On Tuesday night, my Government laid out our plan to ensure Australia
continues the transition from a mining economy to a strong, prosperous 21st-
century economy.  
  
It was not a Budget full of giveaways and sweeteners.  
  
That is because this was not an election Budget — it was a Budget with longer-
term security front of mind. We outlined our three clear aims:  
  
To deliver on our economic plan for jobs and growth;  
  
To ensure we have a sustainable tax system;  
  
To hold faithfully to a responsible, fair and prudent approach to ensure the
Government lives within its means.  
  
We will introduce tax incentives for business to invest and grow, with our
plan to reduce the company tax rate to 25 per cent over the next decade. Small
businesses and medium-sized businesses will benefit first.  
  
This will make Australia more competitive internationally, encourage new
investment, new jobs and higher real wages.  
  
Over time, it will deliver a growth dividend of a full 1 per cent of GDP.  
  
There will be modest tax relief on average fulltime earnings of $80,000 which
will keep around 500,000 Australians from moving into the second top tax
bracket.  
  
We are also ensuring our tax system has integrity so multinationals and high-
wealth individuals pay their fair share.  
  
And we are better targeting superannuation concessions, making sure they are
more flexible to support Australians to save so they are not dependent on the
age pension.  
  
Women tend to live longer than men and typically arrive in their retirement
with lower balances. That is why we are introducing a Low Income
Superannuation Tax Offset so low-income workers don’t pay more tax on their
super than they do on their income — this will assist women working in part-
time employment.  
  
There will also be capacity to carry forward unused concessional caps so women
have the choice to top up super accounts after they return to work.  
  
Getting the young unemployed into the workforce is also a priority.  
  
Our PaTH program will place up to 120,000 young people into workplaces to get
them into the habit of being employed, and to introduce them to employers.  
  
We are also committed to ensure young Australians have the skills they need.
Our student achievement plan will improve outcomes in literacy, numeracy, STEM
subjects.  
  
My Government accepts the reality that we must live within our means.  
  
The way to return the Budget to balance is by getting expenditure under
control and by growing the economy so revenues can lift.  
  
One of the greatest risks to the successful transition to a strong economic
future is for government to spend unwisely and to increase the tax burden or
the deficit — or both — to cover the extra spend.  
  
Sadly, that is the approach of our opponents.  
  
After three years, all Labor has been able to come up with is an agenda to
increase taxes by $12 billion over the next four years and $100 billion over
the next 10.  
  
This is not a plan for the future.  
  
This election will present Australians with a very clear choice.  
  
My team is working hard to make sure we pull every lever we can to set
Australia up to take advantage of the exciting opportunities ahead.PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Good afternoon. On a very non-political note happy Mother's Day to all
Australia's mothers. We love you all so much. Your love has made us what we
are. Happy Mother's Day.  
  
Now, I have returned from visiting the Governor-General as you have observed.
The Governor-General has accepted my advice to dissolve both houses of
Parliament effective tomorrow morning, and call an election for both Houses, a
double dissolution on 2 July.  
  
At this election Australians will have a very clear choice; to keep the
course, maintain the commitment to our national economic plan for growth and
jobs, or go back to Labor, with its higher taxing, higher spending, debt and
deficit agenda, which will stop our nation's transition to the new economy
dead in its tracks.  
  
We live in a time of remarkable opportunity. We live in an era when the scale
and pace of economic change is unprecedented through all of human history. The
opportunities for Australia have never been greater. There are many
challenges. But if we embrace this future with confidence and with optimism,
with self-belief and a clear plan, then we will succeed as we have never
succeeded before.  
  
Our economic plan for jobs and growth is as clear as it is critical - to
support this transition to the new economy of the 21st century.  
  
It is the most exciting time to be an Australian. These are exciting times.
But we must embark on these times, embrace these opportunities, meet these
challenges, with a plan and we have laid out a clear economic plan to enable
us to succeed.  
  
We have set up an Innovation and Science Agenda which will ensure that right
across our nation we are more innovative in business, in academia, in
government, ensuring that we are able in these times of rapid change to meet
them with the agility and the ingenuity and the imagination that makes for
success.  
  
We are ensuring through our Innovation and Science Agenda that our children
have the skills of the 21st century, and that our researchers and scientists,
the best in the world, are collaborating with Australian business and industry
so that we see more of the fruits of their work in Australian jobs and
Australian enterprise.  
  
We have laid out a Defence Industry Investment Plan which will equip our armed
forces with the capabilities they need to keep us safe in this century. And we
will develop and build those capabilities so far as we can right here in
Australia.  
  
Every dollar we can spend in Australia we will. And we will do so by investing
in Australian advanced manufacturing, in Australian technology, in Australian
science, in Australian industry creating thousands of high-tech jobs right
across our nation.  
  
And we live in a region that has seen the most remarkable growth. Little more
than a generation ago, China was an impoverished nation barely part of the
global economy. It is now the world's largest or on some measures the second
largest economy. That is just part of the changes we have witnessed.  
  
In a few years more than half of the world's middle class will be living in
Asia. The opportunities for Australia are enormous. But we have to have the
means to seize them. And we have established export trade deals right across
the region with Korea, Japan, and with China itself.  
  
With the Trans Pacific Partnership and only a few days ago enhancing our Free
Trade Agreement and military cooperation with the Republic of Singapore.  
  
That is providing jobs and economic growth right across Australia in services,
in tourism and education, in agriculture, right across the board, opening
those markets has created enormous opportunities for jobs and growth.  
  
A vital part of our plan is to ensure that young Australians get into
employment, that young Australians, particularly who struggle with getting
started in a job, develop the employability that will set them up for life.
And we have set out, as you have seen in our budget, a youth employment plan
that will help more than 100,000 young Australians into jobs with the PaTH
program preparing them to work as interns to get that experience, to get into
employment. Our tax system is a key part of our plan. It is one of the biggest
influences the Federal Government has on our economy. We are reforming our tax
system to make it more sustainable and fit for purpose in the 21st century.  
  
We have established and are establishing the toughest anti-avoidance laws in
the developed world. We believe in lower taxes. We do. But it is not optional
to pay them.  
  
Multinationals will have to pay their fair share in Australia. The laws we are
setting in place are the world's best.  
  
And we are providing tax relief for Australian businesses with our enterprise
tax plan, beginning with smaller businesses with a turnover of $10 million or
less and then working up so that after 10 years all Australian companies will
be paying 25% corporate tax rather than 30, making our tax rate more
competitive, providing the incentives for investment and for jobs.  
  
We are providing relief for middle income earners, so that people in the
middle income bracket do not move into the second highest tax bracket, in the
way they otherwise would. Our reforms to superannuation, which affect only the
4 per cent of highest income earners, in any negative way or adverse way,
these reforms make our superannuation system fairer and more flexible. 96 per
cent of Australians will either be unaffected or better off. People on low
incomes, under $37,000, will have their tax offset by our new reforms on their
superannuation contribution.  
  
Women, in particular, who have been out of the workforce will be able to come
back in and catch up on unused concessional contributions. And older
Australians will be able to contribute past the age of 65 and self-employed
people will be able to contribute in the same way as if they were employed.
These are critical reforms to make our tax system fairer, more flexible and
fit for purpose. Everything we are committed to, with record spending on
hospitals, on health, on education and infrastructure, is fully funded. Every
single one of our commitments is paid for.  
  
Now the double dissolution that the Governor-General has agreed to is, as you
know, brought about because the Senate has twice refused to pass legislation
relating to the accountability of unions and employer organisations, and most
critically, has twice refused to pass legislation to re-establish the
Australian Building and Construction Commission. The reestablishment of that
commission, in particular, which will be the consequence of us winning this
election, if the Australian people so decide, that will restore the rule of
law to the construction sector, which employs a million Australians. It is a
vital economic reform and critical to our continued success.  
  
Now, our national economic plan is already reaping rewards for Australians. We
are seeing business confidence and growth at higher levels. Last year, the
economy grew 3 per cent in real terms. Over 300,000 jobs were created, last
year, the highest since 2007. And 26,000 new jobs were created in the month of
March alone.  
  
That is the record that we have established already, and we will be seeking
the mandate of the Australian people to continue and complete that national
economic plan, because that is the key to us achieving and realising the great
opportunities of these exciting times.  
  
During this election campaign, my opponent, Mr Shorten, will undoubtedly make
very big promises, or continue to make very big promises of higher spending.
And I ask Australians when they hear these promises, from him and from Labor
to remember that Labor has no credible or coherent way to pay for them, other
than through more debt and higher taxes. The choice cannot be clearer at this
election.  
  
We have an economic plan for growth and jobs. Every single element of it is
designed, is calculated, determined, to deliver stronger economic growth and
more jobs for Australians. On the other hand, our opponents are promising to
increase income tax, they are opposing a tax cut for Australian businesses.
They are proposing to increase capital gains tax by 50 per cent, a tax on
investment.  
  
Now, all of us know that if you want to have less of something, you increase
the tax on it. That is how health organisations justify and urge governments,
as we are doing, to increase the tax on tobacco. Labor clearly wants to have
less investment. They are increasing by 50 per cent the tax on investment.  
  
After three years they have learnt nothing from the failure of the Rudd-
Gillard-Rudd years, in which Mr Shorten, of course was a leading player. And
reports, repeating the policy failures of the Labor era in government we see
one experiment after another, one failed experiment after another.  
  
We see Labor now proposing to ban negative gearing on every single asset class
except new dwellings. This will deliver a massive shock to the property market
at a time, as the Reserve Bank Governor said only a few days ago, property
prices are moderating. It puts at risk the investments of millions of
Australians. It stands in the pathway, blocking the road to entrepreneurship.  
  
Under Labor's plan, not only will the tax on investment be increased by 50%,
but a person who seeks to get started in business and borrows money, and has
no capital other than their own, their human capital, under Labor's plan that
person will not be able to offset any losses they have against their personal
income. But a wealthy person, of course, will be able to offset it against
their investment income. So, Labor, claiming to speak for fairness, but in
really speaking for nothing more than increasing taxes, stands in the way of
Australians getting ahead.  
  
Unlike the Labor Party, Australians know we can be trusted to keep Australia
safe and secure.  
  
The human capital. Under Labor’s plan that person will not be able to offset
any losses they have against their personal income. But a wealthy person of
course, would be able to offset it against their investment income. So Labor
claiming to fairness, but then really speaking for nothing more than
increasing taxes, stands in the way of Australians getting ahead.  
  
Unlike the Labor Party, Australians know we can be trusted to keep Australia
safe and secure. Our Defence investment plan and our re-equipment of our armed
forces is making up for six years of neglect under Labor.  
  
And we know all too well, the shocking and tragic experiment Labor conducted
in Government which saw 50,000 unauthorised arrivals by sea and over a
thousand drowned at sea. We will maintain our border protection policies.
Australians know that we will keep our borders secure. They know that the
Coalition, totally united, is committed to keeping our borders safe. And when
we do so, as we have done since we returned to Government, what we do is
underpin the confidence that Australians have in a Government that controls
its own borders. In a Government that is able to manage an immigration system,
a humanitarian program, and build towards – as we have done so successfully –
the most successful multicultural society in the world.  
  
So the question is clear; do we stay the distance with our national economic
plan for jobs and growth? Or do we go back to Labor, which has no plan, only
politics, only a recipe for more debt, more spending, more unfunded promises,
every measure they have proposed so far, absolutely calculated to stand in the
way of investment, to stand in the way of jobs.  
  
These are exciting times for Australia. These are times for confidence, for
optimism, for a clear plan and we will be seeking a mandate from the
Australian people on the 2nd of July. I will be seeking a mandate from the
Australian people, as the Prime Minister of this country, to carry out this
plan because we know that it will lay the way, clear the way for us to have
the greatest years in our history. These are times unprecedented in
opportunity. There are uncertainties. There are challenges. But with a clear
vision, a clear plan and confidence in Australia and its people, our greatest
days surely are ahead of us.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Prime Minister how many debates will you have with the Opposition leader and
will you commit to an early debate in the campaign?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
We haven’t discussed debates but I look forward to having a number of them.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Should we be disappointed with the Coalition that its taken 2 ½ years for most
of you economic plan to be enunciated let alone put into place?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
We have set out a clear economic plan and we have laid it out. It is working.
The results are there to be seen in strong economic growth. Australians
understand that every plan can be judged on its results. And we have strong
growth, strong job growth. But it will be put at risk if Labor’s job-
destroying investment-deterring policies are allowed to become the policies of
Australia.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
What is the positive effect of your centrepiece business investment, which you
say Labor would want to drop?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
As you reduce business taxes, company taxes in this case, and of course as we
reduce the tax on unincorporated businesses as well, what you do is promote
and incentivise investment. The relationship[ is very clear and direct. That
is why many people in politics including leading figures on the Labor Party,
including the shadow treasurer, have promoted the idea of reducing company
taxes. The way we are doing so is carefully calibrated to ensure that we
provide the earliest benefit to smaller businesses because they have the
agility, the quick decision making ability, to create new investment and jobs
sooner. This is a very carefully considered plan for real growth in jobs and
the economy and economic activity. There is a very direct relationship between
reducing business taxes to a level that makes them more competitive in the
world. Indeed, in our region. And it will pay a substantial dividend in jobs
and growth.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
The central claim from Labor against you is that your economic plan takes
money from families and is unfair. We've had almost three years of debate now  
  
about fairness in policy. The central claim against you is your policies are
unfair. How do you respond to that?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Our plan, our budget, our economic plan, is fair. Not just to Australians
today, but to the generations that will come after us. What Labor left us with
was a mountain of debt and a trajectory of structural deficits that imposed a
larger and larger burden on our children and our grandchildren. Every measure
we have laid out, every single one, will deliver stronger economic growth and
more jobs. Economists may debate how much growth, how many jobs. Time will
tell, but every single one is pulling in that direction.  
  
Every lever of our policy is pulling in the direction of jobs and growth. And
yet you look at the Labor Party - everything they are doing, increasing the
tax on investment, refusing to relieve the burden of tax on Australian
businesses, despite having advocated for it in the past, imposing new taxes.
Everything Labor is doing is absolutely calculated to stop our economic
progress in its tracks. And that is why we are asking the Australian people
for the privilege of governing this country for three more years to secure our
prosperity, to secure our future.  
  
Thank you very much.E&amp;OE;…  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
It’s wonderful to be here with Luke Howarth here in North Lakes. Luke is doing
a fantastic job as the Member for Petrie. His re-election is of vital
importance to the Government and the future of our nation because Luke is
committed to our national economic plan, our national economic plan for jobs
and growth.  
  
We have been talking about jobs here this morning and recognising the
fantastic work that HELP is doing here bringing young people into employment.
The great work that employers like the Good Guys are doing, taking on young
people referred to them by HELP and getting them to develop those employment
skills and that ability to achieve the employability that enables them to go
on and achieve greater things in their life, more work opportunities, better
jobs in the years to come.  
  
We recognise that this issue of youth employment, youth unemployment, is a
very challenging one; very complex. So in our national economic plan, as set
out in the Budget, we have a new program called PaTH - prepare, trial and
hire. We have been discussing that with the team here and they are as excited
about it as we are. So what that’s going to do is it will enable job-active
workers, job-active organisations like HELP to give young people the skills, a
bit of hand-holding as some of you were saying, a little bit of confidence,
little bit of training and then find them internships so that they get that
experience of work, that experience of getting to work, working with others,
building up their confidence that enables them to go on and realise their
dreams.  
  
It is great to be here in Brisbane and this morning as you know, some of you
were there, we were at the markets and we were there talking about other
aspects of our national economic plan for growth and jobs.  
  
We are talking about business, small businesses. Most of those businesses
there are businesses, family-owned businesses, many of them, I would say most
of them, would be benefitting immediately from our enterprise tax cut - if not
in the first year then certainly in the second year. These are businesses that
are founded on the hard work and the enterprise of business men and women,
small business men and women. We are backing them.  
  
There in that big hall in the markets are many businesses who Bill Shorten
does not want to support - does not want to support for a tax cut - does not
want to support in the way we are doing.  
  
Of course we discussed another aspect of our national economic plan there
which is opening up these big markets in Asia. Export trade deals particularly
in China are really energising the export market for fruit and vegetables,
soft commodities and services and many other things too but right here in
Queensland, we were talking to merchants there who were sending melons and
every other form of fruit and vegetable up north into Asia, taking advantage
of those great deals. Supporting jobs and growth right across the country.
That's our commitment. We are excited by it. We can see the enthusiasm for the
growth that that will bring and the wonderful opportunities that that will
bring for all Australians including the young people here today with us.  
  
It is wonderful to be here, Luke, with you in North Lakes and congratulations
for the great work you are doing as the Federal Member.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Prime Minister, today's Newspoll shows fewer than one in five voters feel
better off as a result of the Budget. Do you accept you’ve still got a job
ahead of you to convince voters that your plan is good for them?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
We have an election on the 2nd of July - we have got eight weeks. We will be
talking about our national economic plan every single day. Jobs and growth.
Confidence. Australia - its future. That's what this election is about.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Prime Minister, Treasury modelling released as part of the Budget last week
used to justify the company tax cuts assumes there are just six taxes
including a flat rate of personal income tax and in a position of a
hypothetical broad based land tax. It also says the gains from a company tax
cut can take 10-30 years to flow to work its way through the economy. How
realistic is it with respect that your national economic plan will deliver
jobs and growth immediately when so much of it is based on an unrealistic
scenario and pushed off to the never-never?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Cutting company tax, cutting business tax and of course we are cutting taxes
for unincorporated businesses as well, always drives investment and employment
because you increase the return on investment.  
  
If you want to have more of something, lower the tax on it. If you want to
have less of something, increase the tax.  
  
Bill Shorten wants to have less investment in Australia, can you believe that?
He wants Australians to invest less and if they invest less, they'll employ
less. That's why he is putting up the tax on capital gains. That's why he is
seeking to ban negative gearing, standing in the road of entrepreneurship,
standing in the road of entrepreneurship and enterprise that has enabled many
of the small businesses to get started that will offer jobs to these young
people now and in the years ahead.  
  
Let me say to you that it is very clear that as you reduce business taxes, you
will get more investment and more employment and the Treasury estimated last
year, our Treasury, Australian Treasury estimated last year that for every
dollar of company tax cut there was $4 of additional value created in the
overall economy.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Prime Minister, Labor is painting itself as the underdog. Is this your
election to lose?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
I'm focused on our national economic plan, on the future of these young people
and thousands of others like them. I'm focused on the future of those
businesses we saw today at the markets. Those businesses which deserve the
backing of their government because I tell you, it is their enterprise, their
confidence that is going to determine our future. It is their confidence that
will enable them to invest and employ and therein lies the recipe for our
economic plan of jobs and growth.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
The poll today shows that women, those earning under $100,000 and those aged
between 35 and 49 particularly feel that this budget doesn't do anything for
them. What do you say to them?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Our national economic plan delivers jobs and growth right across the board for
all Australians. Our national economic plan is already working.  
  
MEMBER FOR PETRIE:  
  
It’s working here. Working right here now.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Yeah, it’s working right here in Petrie. And can I tell you, we have seen the
strongest growth over the last six months in employment for women. We have got
the highest participation rate for women now in the workforce in Australia in
our history. So we are seeing very strong growth and that is 26,000 jobs in
March alone, you know, over 300,000 jobs last year. The confidence that we are
building, the economic leadership we are providing, that is driving
confidence, its driving enterprise. And the biggest threat to that is the
Labor Party, every policy of which is absolutely calculated to stunt
investment and deter employment and stop our growth dead in its tracks.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Tony Abbott says this morning he is happy to help out in any way you'd like
him to in this campaign. What is it you'd like him to do?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
He is committed to our national economic plan and he is backing it as all our
Members are, and we look forward to every Member and every candidate on our
team backing our national economic plan because they know that's the way for
more jobs and more growth.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Prime Minister, yesterday you gave quite a detailed pitch for re-election or
your first election, I suppose. You didn't once mention climate change. Was
that deliberate?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Well it was intended to be a 10-minute address, went a little bit longer as
politicians often do. But let me say to you, climate change is very important.
And we have a good climate change policy. We are meeting our targets. We are
meeting our 2020 targets. We will exceed them, in fact. And we are well on
track to meet our 2030 targets.  
  
Our plan is clear, it's part of a global agreement reached in Paris with all
the nations of the world. It's costed.  
  
What Bill Shorten is proposing is a set of measures which will dramatically
increase the cost on all Australians. Some of his measures he does not know
how much it will cost. His renewables target is extraordinarily high. And he
has no costings on that at all. His emissions target is a unilateral near-
doubling of the level agreed to in Paris. And can I say to you that what Mr
Shorten has overlooked is not just the economic interests of Australians, but
the global objective. Everything changed in Paris at the Paris Climate Change
Conference. What happened there was remarkable. All of the nations in the
world agreed to emissions targets for 2030. Each of them exerted some leverage
on the other. So for a person who wants to be - an Opposition Leader who wants
to be Prime Minister to say that Australia would unilaterally nearly double
its target, abandons all leverage we would have.  
  
The way these targets will rise in the future, and I believe they will, is by
mutual agreement. So one nation will say, "We'll go up a bit more, if you go
up a bit more". That is the way these agreements are put together.  
  
For Australia to go out on its own and nearly double its target would achieve
- would impose a huge cost on Australians and would abandon the leverage we
have to get a stronger global response. He has failed to understand that we
have moved from ideology in the climate change debate, to one of practical
negotiation and outcomes. And what we achieved in Paris was a good practical
outcome and I believe those targets will increase over time. But unless
everybody increases together, it will be quite ineffective. So what he is
proposing is bad for the Australian economy. It's bad for jobs and growth. And
it achieves nothing in terms of the global climate change objective.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Won't these internships mean fewer paid jobs for these young people?  
  
MEMBER FOR PETRIE:  
  
No.  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Absolutely not.  
  
The folk from HELP here who understand this area are as excited as we are.  
  
Let me say to you, the critical thing you need to do with young people who
have not been in employment, and who perhaps for whatever reason - lack of
confidence, lack of experience, lack of skills - are not getting into a job.
What they need is a chance. What we are giving them is the best chance to get
started.  
  
And I have to say I agree with the Brotherhood of St Laurence who was pretty
scathing about the critics of this PaTH scheme. It really is a very shameful
thing that the Labor Party opposes it. If they cared about the employment of
young Australians, if they wanted young Australians who are out of work to get
into work and give them the chance to get into work, if they were really
committed to more jobs and more growth, then they would back this scheme, they
would back it right up to the hilt.  
  
Thank you all very much.  
  
E&amp;OE;…  
  
  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Today I first acknowledge the original inhabitants of the land on which we
meet, the people of the Kulin nation. I acknowledge and honour their elders
past and present. And those of all first Australians, and particularly today
those first Australians who have served and are serving Australia in our
Australian Defence Forces.  
  
Rear Admiral Ken Doolan AO RAN National President and Mrs Doolan, RSL National
CEO Sam Jackman, RSL Deputy President Robert Dick and Mrs Dick, Presidents of
the State and Territory RSL and other ex-service organisations, Leader of the
Opposition, the Honourable Bill Shorten, the Minister for Veterans’ Affairs,
the Honourable Dan Tehan and the Shadow Minister for Veterans’ Affairs, the
Honourable David Feeney.  
  
I would also acknowledge His Excellency the Governor General who opened the
proceedings earlier this morning.  
  
And also congratulate the winner of the ANZAC Peace Prize, Peter Greste, who
has spent 22 years covering conflicts across the world.  
  
Yesterday Admiral Doolan stood alongside Bill Shorten and me inside the Shrine
of Remembrance, as together we laid wreaths on the solemn commemoration of
this your centenary.  
  
The nation is united in its respect for you and your century of service to
veterans and their families.  
  
The Returned and Services League too has always sought to unite Australians
and their leaders in respecting and supporting our veterans.  
  
You remind us that our freedoms have been bought at a great price, that our
national interests must be effectively guarded and that in the words of your
wise motto, the price of liberty is eternal vigilance.  
  
And Admiral, as your predecessor Eric Millhouse added in 1949, “Let it be the
nation’s motto too.”  
  
That is doubly reinforced today as we remember the 3,000 Australians who
served in the Normandy landings 72 years ago, that epic turning point in World
War Two that delivered a mighty blow for freedom against the forces of fascism
and tyranny in Europe.  
  
The RSL’s motto resonates as strongly today as it did back in those dark days,
and is well heeded by my Government.  
  
We are embarking on the largest upgrade to our defence capabilities since
World War Two, so that we can keep Australia safe and secure in an uncertain
and complex world.  
  
We are renewing The Royal Australian Navy’s fleet on a scale not seen in
generations.  
  
This includes the construction in Australia of 12 regionally-superior
submarines, 9 Future Frigates, 12 Offshore Patrol Vessels, as well as 21
Pacific Patrol Boats for our island neighbours.  
  
The 2016 Defence White Paper sets out our plan to develop a more potent, agile
and engaged Australian Defence Force ready to respond whenever our interests
are threatened or our help is needed.  
  
At the Shrine yesterday, Admiral Doolan and I reflected on how the wisdom of
classical Greece had inspired its design and the way in which we remember and
honour those who defend our freedom.  
  
When I reflect on our commitment to a strong and capable Australian Defence
Force I am always reminded of another Admiral - Thucydides - who recorded the
words of the Athenian ambassadors nearly 2500 years ago as they sought to
bully a smaller city into submission.  
  
“You know as well as we do,” they said, that “justice, as the world goes, is
only in question between equals in power, while the strong do what they can
and the weak suffer as they must.”  
  
Sobering, chilling and timeless words, and a reminder that a safe Australia, a
safe world, needs a strong Australia.  
  
Governments honour your service in many ways. But there is none more important
than ensuring that Australia has the means to defend itself, so that freedoms
won by you are not lost through neglect or complacency.  
  
A strong defence force is critical to our ongoing national prosperity. That is
why we will ensure that our ADF personnel are always well trained, equipped
and supported to undertake the most challenging of roles.  
  
We ask our soldiers, sailors and airmen and airwomen to shoulder a heavy
burden for this country. We honour your service by ensuring that our
servicemen and women are well led, well-armed and well protected, so that they
can do their job of protecting us and most importantly, come home safe and
sound.  
  
And we honour your service by caring for the wounded, honouring the fallen and
caring for their families and never forgetting that the best way to honour the
heroes of World War One in this centenary is to support and care for the
heroes and veterans of today, you and your members and your families.  
  
It is fitting that we commemorate Australia’s involvement in the First World
War at the same time as we celebrate 100 years of the RSL.  
  
Our young nation had seen just two years of war when the RSL held its
inaugural Congress in Brisbane, in September 1916.  
  
First formed by returning soldiers, its aims were simple – to preserve the
spirit of mateship formed amidst the carnage and horror of battle; to honour
the memory of the fallen; and to help each other.  
  
We were a young nation and only five million in number.  
  
Admiral Doolan and I also reflected on this on the steps of the Shrine
yesterday - such a small nation, such extraordinary service - 417,000 out of
five million served; more than 60,000 died and another 156,000 wounded, gassed
or taken prisoner.  
  
Very few families did not have members who served. Nobody, no family was
untouched.  
  
Lucy’s grandfather Geoffrey Hughes was a fighter ace in the Royal Flying Corps
with eleven victories and a Military Cross.  
  
In December 1916, he learned that his brother Roger, a doctor, recently
arrived on the Western Front, had been wounded. He rushed to his side and was
with him when he died.  
  
My grandfather Fred Turnbull was an infantryman on the Western Front - a
private. We talked about many things Fred and I - fishing and carpentry,
politics and poetry - but he never talked to me about the trenches, and his
silence spoke volumes.  
  
Fred was gassed but survived, as Geoffrey did, to serve again in the Second
World War - the one that started 21 years after the end of the war to end all
wars.  
  
What a generation they were!  
  
The names of the diggers of The Great War are on monuments, in every town and
suburb, a faded inscription on weathered stone.  
  
But each and every one of their unique stories and those of their families are
the threads that form the tapestry of our war-time experience.  
  
From afar, this tapestry tells our national story. Up close, each thread tells
its own tale of courage, grief and sorrow.  
  
Australia in 1916 was a vastly different place. There were few welfare
services and the elderly, the sick and the unemployed were largely left to
fend for themselves.  
  
Veterans struggled to get help for their injuries and to return to civilian
life.  
  
And the hidden wounds – the psychological damage that remained unseen and
therefore untreated – affected both them and their families, sometimes for
generations. Even today, we are still learning how best to help those who
suffer from Post-Traumatic Stress Disorder.  
  
So these were the conditions our first veterans faced after serving their
country.  
  
Into the breach came the RSL and the spirit of comradeship, forged on the
battlefield, spread out across the nation into thousands of suburbs, streets
and homes touched by war.  
  
The League committed itself to provide for the sick, wounded and needy among
those who have served and their dependants, including pensions, medical
attention, homes and employment.  
  
It was instrumental in the creation of the medical repatriation system and the
introduction of service, disability and war widows’ pensions.  
  
In more recent years, the RSL has also helped us to better focus on
commemorative activities, including the Anzac Centenary.  
  
Many have remarked on the growing popularity of Anzac Day parades growing
attendances. But the memorials we build and the symbols we use to remember our
role in war says much about our country.  
  
We do not boast of our victories, because we know that they came at great
cost.  
  
When we remember war and honour those who serve we do so as a nation that
loves peace and is strong to ensure this peace is maintained.  
  
Last week’s repatriation ceremony struck a sombre and poignant note in the
midst of your centenary celebrations.  
  
Australia welcomed home the remains of 33 service personnel and dependents,
including 22 Vietnam War veterans from Terendak Military Cemetery in Malaysia,
and the Kranji Cemetery in Singapore.  
  
His Excellency, the Governor General, General Sir Peter Cosgrove, a Vietnam
veteran and recipient of the Military Cross himself, spoke for Australia when
he said at the repatriation ceremony:  
  
“They were serving Australia, whether in uniform or as part of families
engaged in such service…  
  
In all these years they have been cared for so lovingly and respectfully, but
out of sight, far from home.  
  
Although they have never been out of our minds, never far from our thoughts.  
  
They have stayed too in the minds of their determined, energetic and
persuasive comrades in arms and loved ones, who have been tireless in urging
their repatriation.  
  
And now they are with us and at one with all other veterans in modern times
who have in death, made the sad journey back to their homeland—Australia.”  
  
I pay tribute to the tireless efforts of the veterans and family members to
bring our soldiers home. What you have achieved through your perseverance
helps heal lingering wounds and for that, your nation is grateful.  
  
I also thank the former Minister for Veterans’ Affairs, Michael Ronaldson and
my predecessor as Prime Minister, Tony Abbott, for acknowledging that
repatriation of these soldiers was the right thing to do and for making it
happen.  
  
This year marks the 50th anniversary of the Battle of Long Tan, Australia’s
costliest day in the Vietnam War. We will commemorate it in Canberra on 17 and
18 August and a service will also be held at Enoggora Barracks in Queensland.  
  
When we look back at Australia’s treatment of veterans, the sad fact is that
our actions have not always matched the best of intentions.  
  
That is why the RSL is so important in the history of Australia’s defence
forces and their veterans and why your counsel is sought, including by our
Minister for Veterans’ Affairs, Dan Tehan.  
  
I want to reassure you that the Department of Veterans’ Affairs will continue
to look after veterans because you deserve your own department dedicated to
the special needs that come with being a returned serviceman or woman.  
  
Dan and I know well that understanding and treating mental illness is of
critical importance to you as indeed it is to us. The debilitating effect of
mental illness poses a great burden on us all.  
  
So we are streamlining eligibility to accessing mental health treatment early.
We know that early intervention is the key to more positive outcomes.  
  
That includes $37.9 million in the Federal Budget to extend eligibility for
treatment of certain mental health conditions to all current and former
permanent members of the ADF, irrespective of how long or when they served, or
the type of service.  
  
From 1 July—subject to the passage of legislation—anyone who has ever served
in the ADF permanent forces will be eligible for treatment for conditions such
as post-traumatic stress disorder, anxiety, depression, and alcohol and
substance use disorders.  
  
The Department will provide these individuals with a Department of Veterans’
Affairs White Health Card, which provides additional benefits, including
access to counselling from the Veterans and Veterans Families Counselling
Service.  
  
There is also $1 million for suicide awareness and prevention and $2.1 million
for a pilot program, Kookaburra Kids, to help children with a serving ADF
parent affected by mental illness.  
  
Given the significance of this issue, the Minister for Veterans’ Affairs and I
will have more to say shortly on early intervention strategies to treat mental
illness, including greater support for Australia’s growing female veteran
community.  
  
We also acknowledge the very serious issue of homelessness among veterans,
which is illustrated in the Queensland RSL’s recent report ‘A Place to Call
Home’.  
  
The causes of homelessness are complex, but recognised risk factors include
mental illness such as PTSD.  
  
I’ve asked Dan to gather state and territory ministers to ensure that
addressing homelessness among veterans is a priority in the next term of
Government.  
  
The Commonwealth will also require its agencies to identify whether clients
are veterans, to help us understand the extent of the problem and enable the
Department of Veterans’ Affairs and the RSL to work together to help them.  
  
We are also making changes to ease transition to civilian life. You have told
us about delays, complicated procedures and forms that make things harder.  
  
Funding in the budget will start updating DVA’s IT system to enable people to
connect online. This will help streamline services and reduce delays in
processing. But we will continue to cater for those who prefer to talk to
someone on the phone or behind a counter.  
  
Perhaps one of the most important things we can do for veterans injured during
their service is to support them back into the civilian workforce.  
  
We recognise the positive impact a job can have, how the sense of achievement
that having a job can assist in recovery from injury as well as in preventing
the development of mental illness.  
  
So I am pleased to announce today the Prime Minister’s Veterans’ Employment
Initiative, developing from discussions I have had with Soldier On CEO John
Bale and other veterans at North Bondi RSL and subsequently with John and Dan
Tehan in Canberra.  
  
Later this year John and I will host captains of industry in Sydney to
identify more effective ways to hire more veterans and their spouses in their
organisations. It will encourage employers to recognise the leadership and
skills veterans hold, regardless of their corps or rank and honour their
service to the nation.  
  
We believe Australians employers should be more aware of the important
leadership skills veterans have and the value that they offer to their
organisations. Improving promoting the employment of veterans is a key agenda
for us in our next term of government.  
  
We look forward to the closest collaboration with the RSL and other ex-service
organisations in coordinating our efforts to ensure more and better jobs for
more veterans.  
  
I am pleased at the work that has been done by DVA to support ill and injured
veterans back into the workforce and I note the success of a recent trial that
was undertaken with rehabilitation providers in Queensland.  
  
Lucy and I have been very impressed by, have supported and encouraged others
to support the work being done in the wider veteran community, through
organisations such as Soldier On and Mates4Mates, to help veterans from our
recent military deployments.  
  
Our son in law, James Brown, is an Iraq and Afghanistan veteran and I want to
thank James and his contemporaries, including John Bale, for giving us a very
close insight into the issues affecting the younger veterans of today and
their families.  
  
A centenary is an excellent time to look back on your history and your many
achievements, but also to look forward and plot a course ahead. I believe that
the RSL will best determine how its role will evolve into the future while
maintaining a firm and proud understanding of its proud history.  
  
As the RSL continues to evolve, what was admired of you as servicemen and
women will ensure that you will persevere, you will adapt, you will succeed.  
  
Your members served in different units, in different wars and at different
times. But each and every one of you, and your families, served to keep us
free.  
  
Your advocacy and commitment will always be respected and heeded as in the
past, today and in the future.  
  
Thank you.  
  
ENDSWell thank you so much Scott. Thank you Julian and Nick. It is great to be
speaking at the Menzies Research Centre. A great institution and I recall the
time when I was Chairman and we did a lot of great work. Great work which has
produced stronger public policy in many areas.  
  
Now ladies and gentleman we are living in a time of economic change
unprecedented in human history in both its scale and its pace.  
  
Hardworking Australians are seeing this reality on the nightly news – how
trade, globalization, and, above all, technological change is producing both
new opportunities and also uncertainty in their world.  
  
All Australians, not just economists, know we need to innovate and build new
industries and strengthen existing ones because the mining construction boom
has ended and the economy must transition to create new sources of growth and
jobs.  
  
Our resilience our resourcefulness is being tested in an intensely competitive
and volatile global economy.  
  
But if we as Australians make the right calls to ensure a strong economy and
embrace enterprise and innovation to drive jobs and growth, we can secure our
future as a high-wage first world economy with a generous social safety net.  
  
That’s why Australians face a critical choice on July 2.  
  
This election is about two very different versions of what Australia should
look like in the future. Two very different visions.  
  
My Coalition team’s national economic plan sets Australia up for a secure and
successful future in the 21st century. We are the only team at this election
with an economic plan and every element of our Plan is directed at generating
stronger economic growth, and more jobs.  
  
Our opponents take a different and very complacent view: they seem to assume
economic growth is a given, and that no matter how much you tax, how much you
spend, the good times will just keep rolling.  
  
Our Plan will encourage more businesses to grow, to invest and to employ. And
we will live within our means with record spending on education, health and
infrastructure and at the same time bring the Budget back into balance.  
  
The Budget that Scott brought down is our plan. It is all set out. Not a lot
of pictures. A lot of numbers and a lot of analysis.  
  
Labor on the other hand wants to deny tax cuts to all but the smallest
businesses, run larger deficits, incur more debt, increase taxes on business
and investment - in other words discourage investment and employment.  
  
Now do we need more investment; do we need more enterprise and more jobs? Of
course we do.  
  
Australians can see in our policy measures that encourage that - you lower the
tax on investment, you get more investment.  
  
What is Labor doing? It is increasing taxes on investment, reducing the return
on investment. That will result inevitably in less investment and that means
less jobs.  
  
Now Australia has survived the greatest terms of trade shock in its history.
With the wind back, inevitable wind back I might add, of the mining
construction boom. In fact, we are doing much better than surviving. How has
this happened? It is not by chance.  
  
We are recording strong growth in many sectors, information and
telecommunications, tourism, financial services, retail trade and health care.
Agricultural incomes have grown strongly on the back of our export trade
deals.  
  
All of this indicates our plan is working - a stronger and more diverse
economy, with industries old and new contributing to the heavy lifting.  
  
In times like these - here citizens of the lucky country, more than ever we
have to make your own luck.  
  
If we were to falter in our strong and disciplined approach to transitioning
our economy, there is a real risk of us falling off the back of the pack of
the world’s leading economies.  
  
Today I’m going to take you through my Coalition team’s Plan for a Stronger,
New Economy.  
  
I want to explain exactly what we mean when we talk about “Jobs and Growth”.  
  
I’m going to explain how the elements of our plan are designed to make
Australia more innovative, more productive, and more competitive, and how our
plan is working already to deliver strong growth and more jobs.  
  
I want to stress to you why it is critical to our economic security that we
stick to this plan.  
  
If we see our plan through over the next three years, Australians will have
every reason to approach the future with great confidence and optimism.  
  
Half of the world’s middle class will soon reside in Asia. This gives
Australian business massive opportunities to grow new global markets that will
deliver jobs at home.  
  
To seize these opportunities, we have to help ensure our businesses are nimble
and competitive. We have to promote a vibrant culture of enterprise and
innovation - in every industry from agriculture to advanced manufacturing.
Innovation is not just for twenty-something programmers; it is the key for
every firm to be successful in the 21st century.  
  
Our GDP grew 3.1 per cent in the year to March, faster than any of the G7
economies and well above the OECD average.  
  
That doesn’t happen by accident. You need strong economic leadership. You need
a pro-growth pro-business agenda that delivers investment and jobs.  
  
My Government is providing that leadership and driving that plan for jobs and
growth.  
  
In the last calendar year, 300,000 new jobs were created; almost two thirds of
these were women.  
  
The unemployment rate at 5.7 per cent is well below where it had been
anticipated to be when we came into government.  
  
And the Budget is now on an achievable path back to surplus.  
  
Our economy and our Budget are now heading in the right direction.  
  
But to ensure our longer-term economic security, we can and must do more to
stay ahead of the curve.  
  
Let me turn to exports, a key element, a key driver of success for us in the
future.  
  
Critical to our economic plan are our export trade deals, ensuring our
businesses have premium access to the world’s largest and most dynamic
economies, including our major trading partners in Asia - where within a few
years will be found half of the world’s middle class consumers.  
  
This has all happened in a few decades. This is what I mean about the
extraordinary times in which we live. The pace and the scale of change has no
precedent in human history.  
  
Our export trade deals with China, Korea and Japan are giving our farmers a
competitive edge and higher prices, our tourism sector more visitors, our
colleges and universities more students and they are opening the doors for all
our exporters, especially services, into these giant markets.  
  
The Trans-Pacific Partnership free-trade agreement our Government negotiated
with the United States and 10 other leading world economies awaits
ratification by the US Congress and we are negotiating new trade deals with
the rising economic giants, India and Indonesia.  
  
The results are already strong. In the last quarter, we recorded a 4.4 per
cent lift in exports, and 6 per cent for the year. Services exports grew by 14
per cent over the year - the fastest growth since 2000.  
  
Now it is worth remembering that Labor, under pressure from a ferocious ACTU
campaign to block ChAFTA, only agreed a minute before midnight to pass the
legislation ratifying that historic trade deal.  
  
The Greens and Nick Xenophon are also vocal opponents of this element of our
plan to generate jobs and growth.  
  
Only this week, the ACTU was again piling pressure on Labor, if elected, to
reopen elements of these agreements.  
  
It is another pointer to the chaos and economic uncertainty likely to arise if
a Labor-Greens-Independents alliance is revived at this election.  
  
Our export trade deals are creating jobs right across Australia and in every
sector;  
  
Let’s be very clear about this.  
  
Globalisation means we are now in a much larger global market. More
opportunities but also more competition.  
  
If we want to pull the doona over our head, like Labor and the Greens and
pretend it’s not happening, then we will be left behind.  
  
We have to embrace these opportunities, seize them and win.  
  
And we can only do that with a plan.  
  
We have that plan, and we can see that it is working. We can see that
Australians can compete and win on global markets.  
  
Our national economic plan creates these incentives and opportunities to grow
- the risk of an alliance of Labor, the Greens, independents and the unions is
that they will make it harder for enterprising Australians to take their
products and ideas to the world.  
  
Another key driver is directly supporting Australian enterprise.  
  
Small and medium businesses, many of them family owned businesses, are at the
heart of our economy. Their energy and commitment is vital to jobs and growth.  
  
Our Plan for a Strong, New Economy backs small and medium business.  
  
Under our plan from July 1 businesses with a turnover of less than $10 million
will receive a tax cut and access to instant asset write-offs.  
  
Labor has said it will only support tax cuts to businesses which turn over
less than $2 million.  
  
That means if we are not re-elected, 100,000 small and medium businesses with
turnovers between $2 and $10 million and employing 2.2 million Australians
will get no support to invest, to employ, to grow.  
  
The tax cuts we will keep, we will deliver will help every one of those
employers, encouraging more investment in businesses, more jobs, higher
retained earnings, higher real wages.  
  
Until very recently, Mr Shorten was happy to say that tax cuts for business
were good for jobs, growth, productivity and higher wages.  
  
Let me quote to you from his interview from March, 2012:  
  
“Any student of Australian business and economic history since the mid-
eighties knows that part of Australia's success was derived through the
reduction in the company tax rate. We need to be able to make life easier for
Australian business, which employs two in three Australians.”  
  
Well said, you might say. A penetrating glimpse of the obvious, from
presumably, a student of Australian business and economic history. Sadly the
student, Mr Shorten has either lost his memory, or lost his way.  
  
The proven experience of business tax cuts is as he said in 2012, that they
generate growth and jobs.  
  
Basic common sense and economic principles confirm it. Economic modelling
confirms it. Statistical research confirms it. Chris Bowen has confirmed it.
He went so far as to write a book about it.  
  
Peter Costello cut company tax, as did Paul Keating. So persuaded was he that
he cut it twice!  
  
When Peter Costello reduced our company tax to 30 per cent, we were the 9th
lowest in the OECD. Now we are at the uncompetitive bottom of the pack with 27
OECD nations having a lower company tax rate than us.  
  
Since 2008 New Zealand has cut its company tax rate from 33 to 28 percent.  
  
And over the same period the UK has gradually reduced its company tax rate
from 30 to 20 percent, and will further reduce it to 18 percent by 2020.  
  
More investment means more jobs and higher wages. As businesses put more money
into their enterprise, they grow. As they grow they need to have more people.
As they grow they are more profitable, they can then pay their employees more.  
  
Labor and the Greens see a conflict between business and workers. Well let’s
try this quiz? Who would you rather work for - a business that is doing well,
investing and growing? Or one that is struggling, burdened by too much tax?  
  
Struggling to succeed in markets because there isn’t the encouragement to
enter them. Who would you rather work for? A business that is achieving well,
investing more and growing, or one that is struggling? Its obvious isn’t it?
And yet everything Labor and the Greens are doing will discourage business and
discourage investment. And when they do that they discourage employment.  
  
Now Independent Economics’ Chris Murphy, who led the tax modelling work for
Labor’s Henry Tax Review when Bill Shorten was last in government, shows that
the benefit to Australian consumers from our enterprise tax plan is $2.39 of
benefit for every single dollar of tax cut.  
  
Now that is exactly the kind of economic dividend for workers that was once
championed very persuasively and effectively in government by Paul Keating -
but which is now repudiated by the modern Labor party.  
  
These are economy-wide gains - the benefit of jobs and growth - that Bill
Shorten is opposing, just so he can play cheap politics with his toxic attacks
on “the big end of town”.  
  
In the next term of Parliament, the only firms which will get enterprise tax
cuts under our plan, are small-to-medium businesses that collectively employ
more than 4.4 million hard-working Australians.  
  
They are not big banks. Overwhelmingly they are Australian-owned, hard-working
family enterprises.  
  
Now we are backing also young Australians who need a job, young Australians
who have struggled to get into the work force. Scott Morrison set out an
innovative PaTH Program in the budget, which will ensure that 120,000 young
unemployed Australians have the opportunity to get into a job and get the
experience of work.  
  
The industry response to this initiative has been very encouraging, with the
Motor Trades Association of Australia, representing more than 60,000
automotive businesses nationwide, signalling they will partner in this
initiative. They’re looking to provide internships to 4000 of those job-
seekers. This has been a very well received initiative and it tackles that
challenge, that problem of long-term youth unemployment.  
  
Innovation and advanced manufacturing are also key drivers of our Plan.  
  
Our innovation and science plan will bring more great Australian ideas to
market. Under our $1.1 billion National Innovation and Science Agenda, we are
offering real incentives for start-up companies in the industries on the
frontier of technology.  
  
And its worth reflecting what we’re doing there. We’re providing tax offsets
and we’re providing relief from capital gains tax. Why are we doing that? Why
does everyone agree that is a good approach? Because we know that if you want
more of something, you reduce the tax on it. If you want less of something,
you increase the tax on it. So what we’re doing is we’re reducing tax in order
to promote more investment. And that will deliver more investment.  
  
What Labor is doing, they are increasing taxes on investment and that can have
only one consequence, of less investment and less jobs, less opportunities for
Australians.  
  
Now to succeed in the 21st century, we need to ensure that Australia and
Australians are more innovative, more technologically sophisticated. That is
clear.  
  
Our plan will prepare our children for the jobs of the future with a greater
focus on science, technology, engineering and maths and skills in digital
literacy like coding. Likewise, the investment by my Government in Australia’s
defence industries, is central to our plan to ensure national security and
economic security for generations to come. Under our defence industry plan, 12
offshore patrol vessels will be under construction in two years’ time.
Australian workers building those vessels with Australian steel.  
  
A year later, the building of nine Future Frigates will commence. Then in
2022, we will start construction of the first of 12 regionally superior
submarines, the single biggest investment in our military history.  
  
These projects will drive jobs, growth and innovation for 50 years.  
  
Using the most sophisticated technology in the world, the submarine build
alone creates nearly 3000 direct and indirect jobs in Australia. And it is
vital to understand that our naval shipbuilding program goes well beyond these
projects, well beyond the submarine project. For our advanced manufacturing
sector, the benefits will be decades-long, across the entire national supply
chain.  
  
This is a commitment that puts our opponents to shame.  
  
The Labor-Greens-Independent government cut more than $18 billion from Defence
funding and delayed more than 100 projects.  
  
Our plan – our naval shipbuilding program - will transform our defence
industries and sustain them for decades.  
  
And the benefits of these elements of our Plan, like all of the Plan, begin
right now.  
  
Now let me turn now to Labor’s fiscal fantasy.  
  
Our Labor opponents as you know, are inclined to push their performance
measures out to a 10-year time frame, because they have no way of paying for
the promises they make.  
  
Kevin Rudd gave us a 2020 vision. I might say, it’s been often observed, that
a vision without resources is a hallucination.  
  
[Laughter]  
  
The 2020 vision of Kevin Rudd crumbled in the chaos of the Labor-Greens
minority government debacle. The result was a Budget in structural deficit and
the loss of confidence and certainty in our economic future.  
  
Much like Kevin Rudd, now Bill Shorten wants to take us on a flight of fantasy
to 2026.  
  
Same old Labor. Australians will not be taken for fools.  
  
Mr Shorten could have spared us the gloss and hype of the launch of his
brochure and simply told Australians the unvarnished truth.  
  
After taxing the life out of the economy, Labor still ends up with much bigger
deficits over the next four years - the forward estimates. That is the plain
truth from which they cannot hide.  
  
They cannot or will not tell us how much bigger these deficits will be. Nor
have they, nor can they, offer a credible pathway back to a responsible budget
position.  
  
Bill Shorten jokes about piling more and more funding promises onto his spend-
o-meter.  
  
This is nothing to laugh about. Labor’s reckless approach to our nation’s
public finances would have very serious consequences for the economic security
of all Australians. As we have heard in the warnings this week from prominent
commentators and economists about the risk Labor’s trajectory of increasing
deficits would pose to our credit rating.  
  
Labor’s promise for the next three years is to spend more money we don’t have,
slow economic growth and employment by increasing taxes on business and
investment and as a consequence run higher deficits and run up more debt for
our children and grandchildren to pay off. So much for fairness. Piling more
and more debt on our children and grandchildren to pay off.  
  
Let me paint you a clear picture, by way of contrast, of what Our National
Economic Plan can deliver in the life of the next Parliament. This is not some
over-the-horizon promise. It is our assessment of the positive, practical
gains from a fully costed and funded Plan for jobs and growth to be delivered
over the next three years.  
  
By 2019, over 99.5 per cent of businesses - employing nearly 40 per cent of
working Australians - will be benefiting from our enterprise tax plan. There
will not a big bank, or large multinational among them. For the most part,
these will be locally owned, family run businesses including your local
newsagent or builder.  
  
By 2019, international tourists to Australia will be spending an extra $5
billion a year in real dollars, in our economy, nearly half of this increase
accounted for by tourists from China and India.  
  
By 2019, there will be nearly 100,000 young Australians helped into work by
our PaTH youth employment program.  
  
By 2019, Australia will be shipping 1.1 million tonnes of beef worldwide –
including 170,000 tonnes to China, 294,000 tonnes to Japan, 190,000 tonnes to
Korea and 300,000 tonnes to the United States. This is enough, Barnaby Joyce
assures me, to make 21 billion hamburgers.  
  
[Laughter]  
  
By 2019, our tax cuts for middle income earners will put $2.8 billion back
into the pockets of around two and a half million Australians.  
  
By 2019, the Budget will be well on the way to a responsible surplus, with the
deficit being reduced to $5.9 billion in 2019-20, and returning to surplus the
following year.  
  
And by 2019, because we are living within our means we can ensure the funding
we provide to schools will have grown by a further 26 per cent to $19.8
billion each year.  
  
That is the fundamental distinction between our approach and that of Labor.  
  
Our Plan is set out in the Budget, fully costed and funded.  
  
Our commitments are bankable; our fiscal projections are prudent; and it is
all part of a coherent, carefully-constructed plan that is already delivering
tangible results.  
  
Labor’s alternative program is a leap into the unknown - or perhaps the all
too well known and bitterly remembered. It is the same old Labor, built around
promises they can’t pay for and will never be able to deliver.  
  
The flaw in the Labor Party's thinking is that they assume economic growth and
just take it as a given. They can increase taxes, rack up more debt, spend
more. And none of this, they assume, is going to have any effect on the
economy.  
  
  
  
Let’s not kid ourselves.  
  
  
  
There are plenty of economic risks on the horizon, particularly in the global
economy. There are risks in the things that we can't control, like the price
of iron ore, or growth projections in China, or the stability of the Eurozone.  
  
  
  
But what I know for sure, is that we are best able to deal with these
challenges, if we have a strong and resilient economy, if we have a Government
with strong economic leadership which understands what drives business.  
  
  
  
A government with an economic plan that will encourage investment and
employment. That's the Government I lead. That's the clear plan we have laid
out. That's the plan that will deliver us the jobs and growth in the years
ahead: a strong economy, a resilient economy, backing the enterprise and
commitment of Australians.  
  
  
  
Only a sustainable budget, built on strong economic growth, can deliver
Australians the services they want and expect, like guaranteed funding for
health, education and infrastructure.  
  
  
  
Neither Labor nor their friends the Greens or Independents, have a credible
plan to deal with the economic challenges of this the 21st century. Our Labor
opponents have nothing to say about generating investment and enterprise. They
have nothing to say about securing prosperity today, or forging the growth of
the industries and jobs of the future.  
  
  
  
Labor’s only plan is to impose $100 billion in additional taxes over the next
10 years.  
  
  
  
They are proposing taxes which will actively slow economic growth. Labor’s
policies would kill incentive, damage jobs and stop the successful transition
of the our economy dead in its tracks.  
  
Let's be quite clear about this. You want more investment; you lower the tax
on investment.  
  
As I said a moment ago, that is why we recently all voted to provide capital
gains tax relief and offsets to encourage people to invest in start-up
companies. That’s why we provide tax incentives for research and development.
It’s obvious, that’s why taxes have been increased and imposed over many years
on tobacco- to discourage people from smoking. If you want less of something
you increase the tax on it. Labor plainly wants less investment. And that
means less growth, less jobs.  
  
They’re planning to ban negative gearing - the ability of working Australians
to invest and offset losses against their personal wage or salary income.  
  
They're banning negative gearing on every single asset class - shares,
business, property, commercial property, residential property - except for new
dwellings.  
  
So what’s that going to do? That also restricts and reduces investment.  
  
You reduce investment, you reduce growth and jobs.  
  
What about capital gains tax? That is a classic tax on investment and they are
going to increase it by 50 per cent. Has only one result- again, less
investment.  
  
Now this is what awaits Australians, should we return to the chaos of a Labor-
Greens alliance. Less investment, less jobs, less confidence, less economic
growth and more uncertainty. A less secure future for all of us, but
especially for those for whom we should be acting with the greatest fiduciary
trust- the greatest and deepest responsibility. Our children and our
grandchildren. Labor renders their future insecure, and uncertain.  
  
We are ensuring with every element of our plan, that their future is secured.
That there will be greater opportunities for them to start a business, to find
a new job, to find a better job. For them to seize the opportunities of the
hour. We are creating that environment with an economic plan- every element of
which will deliver stronger economic growth and jobs. And our opponents seem
determined to go in precisely the opposite direction.  
  
This is a very clear choice. And so as pre-poll voting opens in the next few
days, I urge all Australians to think very carefully, about the choice they
are to make.  
  
Just a few thousand votes across a handful of seats will decide if the Greens
and Independents will be once again calling the shots in a Shorten-Greens
minority government.  
  
A vote for any candidate other than a Coalition candidate is a vote for this
chaos.  
  
We have seen the effect of this dysfunction in the Senate, with vital economic
reforms being blocked by Labor, Greens and the independents.  
  
That is why I called this double dissolution election.  
  
Restoring the rule of law in our construction industry through the restoration
of the Australian Building and Construction Commission, is an essential reform
if Australians are to have the infrastructure they need at a price they can
afford – from hospitals and schools, to office towers or apartment blocks.  
  
Labor, the Greens and cross-benchers blocked this reform twice in the Senate,
despite evidence to the Heydon Royal Commission showing widespread malfeasance
by union officials on construction sites across the country.  
  
At the latest count, there are more than 100 officials of the CFMEU before
courts and tribunals on more than a thousand charges over breaches of
industrial law.  
  
Bill Shorten in Government set up the RSRT with the express objective of
putting owner drivers out of business to benefit large trucking companies
whose employees were members of the TWU.  
  
And it worked. 50,000 owner drivers were off the road, they were out of
business, their families had no income.  
  
Thankfully we were, just, able to abolish that Tribunal and keep those
families in business. But make no mistake if Labor wins this election, as it
did before, the RSRT will be back - the Transport Workers Union will demand
and will get its reward and family businesses once again will be the losers.  
  
And, now, in Victoria, unfolding we see an outrageous attempt by the Andrews
Labor Government and the United Firefighters Union to impose an effective
takeover by the union of the Country Fire Authority volunteers.  
  
Like the SES, like the Surf Lifesavers Associations, the CFA volunteers are
vital to the fabric of our community.  
  
We have been reminded of the selfless service of our volunteers this very
week.  
  
And that is why we are committed to standing shoulder to shoulder with the
volunteers and amending the Fair Work Act to protect volunteer organisations,
like the CFA, from union takeovers.  
  
That is why it is so important Australians consider their vote very carefully
at this election, for both the Senate and the House of Representatives.  
  
Every single vote for the Nick Xenophon Team, the Independents or Labor or the
Greens brings us closer to Bill Shorten and The Greens running Australia.  
  
That would mean Labor’s tax hikes on investment, the Greens tax hikes on
superannuation, and Nick Xenophon’s tax hikes on traded goods.  
  
So now is not the time for a protest vote or a wasted vote; it is the time to
use your vote in support of a strong economic plan – and to prevent a hung
parliament that would bring government and our economic transition to a
grinding halt, costing jobs and imperilling our future.  
  
If you want a better future for yourself and your family, don’t risk yet
another change of government, yet another Labor Prime Minister and the chaos
of yet another minority government.  
  
The only way to ensure that there is continued, strong, stable government with
a clear national economic plan is to vote for the Coalition in both houses.  
  
With your vote we can complete the job we’ve started, stick to our economic
plan for jobs and growth – and together we can make Australia stronger and our
future more secure.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
As-salaam-alaykum, Peace Be Upon You and good evening to all of you gathered
here tonight on this very special occasion.  
  
I am honoured to be the first Australian Prime Minister to host an Iftar
during the holy month of Ramadan. To the approximately 500,000 Muslim
Australians across our country and to the more than 1.5 billion Muslims around
the world - Ramadan Kareem!  
  
The sacred month of Ramadan serves as a season of reflection, forgiveness and
spiritual renewal. During the course of this month, Muslims will fast, take no
food or water between dawn and sunset, in order to refocus their minds on
faith and redirect their hearts to charity, so that they can understand the
lives and experience of those who are less fortunate than them.  
  
It is a special time of service and support for those in need and it’s also a
time to join with family and friends in celebration of our common humanity.  
  
Tonight we gather as a community of many faiths and cultures to get to know
one another and share in the spirit of Ramadan. I am delighted that we are
joined tonight not only by so many outstanding Muslim Australians but
Australians of many faiths – including Christians, Jews, Hindus, Sikhs and
Buddhists.  
  
I see tonight the Archbishop of Sydney, with whom only last night we
remembered the victims of the Orlando killings in his church, St Andrews
Cathedral. There in a beautiful service where he preached so well, so
eloquently, and there in a congregation with men and women of many faiths just
as we have tonight.  
  
Strong in our solidarity, strong in our common humanity, strong in standing up
against hatred and the people that seek to divide us.  
  
By breaking bread, by sharing food across religions and by bringing diverse
people of diverse backgrounds together, we embody Islam’s emphasis on the
diversity of humanity, illustrated in this Quranic verse which you all know
well and is much quoted, because it is very profound:  
  
“Mankind we created you from a single pair of a male and female, and made you
into nations and tribes so that you might come to know one another.”  
  
Tonight we also acknowledge the remarkable contribution that Muslims have made
to Australian society – ours the most successful multicultural society in the
world. From the Makassan fishermen who traded with our first Australians in
the 1600s, to the Afghan camel drivers who opened up the interior of our vast
continent. And to the teachers, artists, business leaders, public servants,
community leaders, journalists – every profession and calling – oil engineers,
drilling engineers, like my companion on my table here tonight – we have every
calling represented.  
  
All of you make Australia what it is. Rich in our diversity, our great
strength. I especially want to recognise the young Muslim leaders who are here
tonight, many of whom are seated at my table here.  
  
They come from all walks of life, are breaking down barriers and making a real
contribution to enriching and strengthening our society. They represent a new
and dynamic generation of Muslim leadership in Australia who are shaping a
more prosperous and harmonious future for all Australians.  
  
I’ll say it again. We are the most successful and harmonious multicultural
society in the world. Our multicultural success is at the heart of our
national identity. It is intrinsic to our history and our character.  
  
There is a great value to be found in what we were just discussing a moment
ago, which I would describe as cultural curiosity.  
  
I’ve always been a very curious person. I’ve always believed that the cultural
background, the religion, the history of our friends and neighbours enriches
us.  
  
We are enriched by the diversity in the experience of others and of course
sharing food and drink here at this meal – sharing food across every culture –
is a profound experience. It’s a sign of friendship. It’s a sign of
engagement.  
  
In March this year, I visited the Islamic Museum of Australia and I
participated in a roundtable meeting with Muslim youth leaders at the Islamic
Council of Victoria. I was thrilled to meet such a talented and accomplished
group of young Australians, a number of whom are here tonight.  
  
I was inspired to hear about the extraordinary work that they’re doing in
serving the broader community. For example, Azmeena Hussain, a senior
associate at a major Melbourne law firm is also a director of the InTouch
Multicultural Centre Against Domestic Violence, an external advisor to the
Victorian Police and an AFL Multicultural Ambassador. There is also Maryum
Chaudhry, who founded the Islamic Council of Victoria’s Office for Women,
served as a commissioner at the Victorian Multicultural Commission,
represented Australia in official exchanges with Indonesia and Malaysia, and
is currently in the process of establishing a foundation to invest in
educational opportunities for youth leaders.  
  
At the same time, what was also clear at our meeting was these young
Australians’ ongoing anxiety about the backlash caused by the violent acts of
a small minority of extremists who defame and blaspheme against their faith,
and for which the entire Muslim community is often blamed.  
  
At the ICV we committed together, to work together in partnership, to ensure
we are a stronger and more united Australian family.  
  
I saw and heard first hand, devotion, patriotism and dedication to building
bridges of understanding. I applaud the role of those youth leaders who, like
so many others in the Muslim community, continue to uplift this nation and who
demonstrate the virtues of their faith in their daily lives.  
  
The aim of extremists, including those committing violence through a warped
and nihilist interpretation of religion is to divide us and to turn our
citizens against each other - but we will not let them win. Acts of terror
like Sunday’s massacre in Orlando are perpetrated to divide us along lines of
race, religion, sect and sexuality - but that kind of hatred and division must
not prevail. We must stand together like we do tonight as one Australian
family united against terrorism, racism, discrimination and violence.  
  
I want to reiterate something that I said to the Islamic Council of Victoria
in March - and that is to emphasise to each and every one of you that the
Australian Muslim community is valued and respected – and it is not confined
to a narrow security prism – you are an integral part of an Australian family
that rests on the essential foundation of mutual respect and understanding.
Every one of us is enriched by the culture and the faiths of our friends and
neighbours.  
  
Australians are not defined by religion or race; we are defined by a common
commitment to shared political values, democracy, freedom, the rule of law,
all underpinned of course by mutual respect.  
  
As citizens of this country, we all have a shared responsibility to
participate in improving our society. Our humanity and our destiny – each of
our destinies - are tied one to all the others.  
  
I want to offer you my thanks for taking the time to be here this evening. I
wish you all a very blessed Ramadan. The Prophet Muhammad once said: "He is
not a believer who lets himself be satiated while his neighbour goes hungry".  
  
So on that note, I think we should all continue to enjoy our delicious feast,
enjoy our fellowship and our friendship. Enjoy sharing our stories, our
passions, our history, our visions for our future, for Australia’s future.  
  
Because believe me, we are all part, all of us, all 24 million of us, every
faith, every background, every race, we are all part of an extraordinary
project.  
  
This is a blessed country. This is a remarkable country. This is, in a world
of discord and disharmony, in a world where there is so much hatred, this is a
country which has successfully built a society that is diverse, that is
multicultural and that is founded on mutual respect. When you distil that
concept of mutual respect, when you distil it right at the core, is the value
most important and closest to God and that is love. Our nation is built on a
foundation of mutual respect, love and respect, for our fellow Australians and
a love and respect for humanity.  
  
Thank you very much for being here tonight.  
  
