MALCOLM TURNBULL (Wentworth—Minister for Communications) (11:46): I move:  
  
That this bill be now read a second time.  
  
The Copyright Amendment (Online Infringement) Bill 2015 amends the Copyright
Act 1968 to provide an effective new tool that rights holders use can then use
to respond to commercial scale widespread copyright infringement on websites
operated outside Australia.  
  
Significance of the creative industries and copyright challenges  
  
Copyright protection provides an essential mechanism for ensuring the
viability and success of creative industries by providing an incentive for and
a reward to creators. A part of copyright law is to strike the right balance
between, on the one hand, creators and owners of copyrighted works and, on the
other hand, users and disseminators of copyrighted works. However, this is
never simple. Creators themselves have an interest in both protecting their
rights as well as access and dissemination of content.  
  
Australia possesses a proud and valuable creative sector. Our creative
industries make a significant contribution to our national economy. According
to a 2012 report, Australia's creative industries employ 900,000 people and
generate economic value of more than $90 billion, including $7 billion in
exports.  
  
The internet has created new opportunities for creating, innovating, accessing
and distributing intellectual property. The internet has also created major
challenges for copyright protection. Material can be accessed, copied and
shared with ease. In many instances this is a very good thing and has helped
promote education and freedom of speech.  
  
On any view, in net terms the internet has been the most wonderful beneficial
invention of infrastructure of mankind. But a collateral effect of
technological changes of this kind has been to exacerbate an indifference to
the rights of copyright owners among some internet users an expectation
amongst some that content should in every respect be free. In many cases, free
access to content is lawful and proper, and, as such, is provided for
expressly under exceptions to infringement in the Copyright Act.  
  
The challenge though is to strike the right balance. In that regard, it has
become apparent that there is a gap in Australia's legislative framework in so
far as existing copyright law is not adequate to deter a specific type of
infringing activity, which is the facilitation of the online infringement of
copyright owners' content, largely of audio-visual material, by online
apparatus. Hence parliament recognises that a remedy is required.  
  
There are a number of foreign based online locations that disseminate large
amounts of infringing content to Australian internet users. These online
locations are currently able to operate without disruption, and profit to a
large extent from facilitating the streaming and downloading by end users of
infringing copies of audio-visual material. What they do, in unlawfully
accessing and then profiting from the intellectual and artistic endeavours of
others, is a form of theft.  
  
Rights holders face a number of practical barriers in enforcing their rights
against these operators and the most but practical barrier of all, of course,
is that the website or the online site that is facilitating this type of
infringement, engaging in this form of intellectual property theft is located
in a jurisdiction where it is not practical to take legal proceedings. Hence
the need to deal with this particular problem. It is a specific problem.  
  
It is very hard to take enforcement action against entities operating outside
Australia. In practical terms, it is very difficult. An injunction can only be
awarded by a court after lengthy and costly civil proceedings. The widespread
scale of infringement means that it is often not viable for rights holders to
enforce their rights against individual users.  
  
New injunctions power  
  
This bill will provide a powerful new mechanism to protect the legitimate
interests of rights-holders by enabling infringing material to be blocked by a
carriage service provider without the need to establish fault on the part of
that provider—the carriage service provider being the internet service
provider. Specifically, the bill will introduce a new provision that allows
rights holders to apply to the Federal Court for an order directing a carriage
service provider to disable access to infringing online locations located
outside Australia.  
  
This type of provision is working well in other parts of the world such as the
United Kingdom, Ireland and Singapore. An injunction is often ordered in those
jurisdictions without any opposition from the internet service provider
concerned.  
  
Critically, the provisions in this bill have been carefully drafted to ensure
that the new injunction power will not affect the legitimate websites and
services that legally provide access to copyright material. Importantly, the
provision will apply on a no-fault basis against the carriage service
provider. This recognises that, while carriage service providers are not
necessarily responsible for infringing online locations, they are best placed
to prevent Australian internet users from accessing them. The provision does
not apply to online locations in Australia, since rights holders can take
direct action against those online locations through existing remedies in the
Copyright Act.  
  
The bill recognises that there is a need to balance the important goal of
protecting our creative industries against other vital public and private
interests. The bill, therefore, contains a number of safeguards to ensure that
the power is not used to curb those competing interests. First, the power is
only as broad as it needs to be to achieve its objectives. The provision will
only capture online locations where it can be established that the primary
purpose of the location is to infringe or facilitate the infringement of
copyright. That is a significant threshold test which will ensure that the
provision cannot be used to target online locations that are mainly devoted to
a legitimate purpose. As an example of this, let us say that we have a
legitimate streaming service located in the United States that is streaming
content in respect of which it has all of the copyright authority to stream to
customers in the United States. Let us assume that an Australian was to use a
VPN, a virtual private network, to create the impression that they were
actually located in the United States so that when the American site saw the
IP address they would see a US IP address. This Australian could then—and this
is widely done—purchase the content in the normal way, with a credit card. The
owner of the Australian rights to the content may very well be quite unhappy
about that, but they can take a remedy against the American site. This
provision does not apply to a site like this. Where someone is using a VPN to
access Netflix in the United States to get content in respect of which Netflix
does not have an Australian licence, this bill would not deal with that
because you could not say that Netflix in the United States has, as its
primary purpose, the infringement or facilitation of the infringement of
copyright. This is a very important point to make. There are other remedies
available to Australian rights holders in respect of those conventional
sites—if I can describe them that way.  
  
Second, the court must consider a broad range of factors that reflect
competing public and private interests. The court must consider the flagrancy
of the infringement. This provision particularly contemplates online locations
that deliberately and conspicuously flout copyright laws. The court must also
consider whether blocking access to the online location is a proportionate
response in the circumstances. For example, the court may consider the
percentage of infringing content on the online location compared to the
legitimate content or the frequency with which the infringing material is
accessed by subscribers in Australia. Another consideration for the court is
the overall public interest. The internet has revolutionised our ability to
disseminate information and knowledge. The court must weigh the public
interest in access to information against the public interest in protecting
our creative industries. These competing public interests must themselves be
considered in the wider context of the private interest which it is the
principal purpose of the bill to protect—that is, the right of content
creators to the protection of their intellectual property.  
  
Another important factor is the impact of the application for an injunction on
any person affected. That includes, in particular, the carriage service
provider, the ISP. The court will need to consider whether there are
procedural safeguards to ensure that affected operators of online locations
will have an avenue to make their case. The bill requires the copyright owner
to notify the carriage service provider and the operator of an application as
soon as practical. The operator may then seek to be joined as a party to the
proceedings.  
  
Extensive consultation has been conducted on this measure. On 30 July last
year the Attorney-General and I jointly released the Online Copyright
Infringement discussion paper for public consultation. A number of submissions
directly addressed this proposal. As a result of this consultation the measure
was modified to give more flexibility to courts in determining whether to
order an injunction to capture future infringing technologies and to provide
more safeguards for carriage service providers, operators, online locations
and internet users.  
  
The new injunction power is one measure that the government is introducing to
address online copyright infringement. International experience shows that a
range of measures are needed to properly tackle the problem. The new
injunction power will complement the industry code that is being developed
between the internet service providers and copyright holders. When finalised,
the code will create an education notice scheme that will warn alleged
infringers and give them information about legitimate alternatives. An
injunction provision will be even more effective if users are properly
educated and warned about online copyright infringement.  
  
In conclusion, in combating online copyright infringement the most powerful
weapon that rights holders have is to provide access to their content in a
timely and affordable way. The government accepts that this is an important
element in any package of measures to address online copyright infringement.
The government also welcomes recent action by rights holders and expects
industry to continue to respond to this demand from consumers in the digital
market. The bill complements these objectives by ensuring there is fair
protection of the rights of content creators while balancing other competing
interests in the online environment. This will be achieved by ensuring
copyright holders have access to an effective remedy without unduly burdening
carriage service providers or unnecessarily regulating the behaviour of
consumers. I move that this bill be now read a second time, and I commend it
to the House.  
  
Debate adjourned.