'Australia’s Future Workplace'  
  
CEDA Conference  
  
19 June 2015  
  
  
  
When Lord Byron travelled to Greece in 1812, he declared:  
  
Fair Greece! sad relic of departed worth![1]  
  
Immortal, though no more! though fallen, great!  
  
In many ways, he wasn’t just talking about Greece’s ‘departed worth’ as
measured just by its cultural or artistic output, but actual economic output.
As Angus Maddison’s project to track historic national accounts shows,
Greece’s per capita income in the age of Byron was only around 20 per cent
higher than it was in the age of Plutarch [2].  
  
For many millennia, economic life was much the same for each successive
generation.  
  
The problem of rapid technological change - and with it, the displacement of
wide chunks of the labour force - is a relatively new one. Perhaps the first
social movement protesting against automation and the threat it poses to
labour was the Luddite movement in the early 19th century; workers protesting
at Foxconn facilities about being replaced by robots is the latest incarnation
of this same problem[3].  
  
In 1930, John Maynard Keynes wrote of the fantastic and frenetic changes
occurring around him, with output per head in U.S. factories increasing 40 per
cent in a period of just five years. “The increase of technical efficiency,”
he wrote, “has been taking place faster than we can deal with the problem of
labour absorption”[4]. He predicted that within a century, output per head
would be four to eight times greater; and that the work week would be reduced
to around 15 hours, to be replaced by a culture of leisure.  
  
He was right in terms of growth - 85 years on and the Australian and U.S.
output per head has grown by a factor of six[5].  
  
And there has also been a huge shift of jobs from traditional sectors. In
1900, one in four Australians were employed in the agriculture sector[6]. As
of May, agriculture accounted for slightly more than 2 per cent of total
jobs[7]. As late as 1970, manufacturing accounted for 28 per cent of the
workforce; it now accounts for just over 7 per cent of jobs.  
  
The short point is that in an open, dynamic, globally competitive market
economy, jobs lost in relatively declining sectors will be made up for in new
ones.  
  
What Keynes didn’t foresee, however, was just how transformative new
innovations would be; bringing not just new ways of creating old products, but
new waves of demand and need for skilled inputs.  
  
Economists Claudia Goldin and Lawrence Katz famously wrote about the “race
between education and technology” and it appears that humans have, for the
most part, stayed ahead of the curve of technological change by moving up the
value chain faster than computers[8].  
  
A 1965 NASA report sums up our inherent advantage. “Man is the lowest-cost,
150-pound, nonlinear, all-purpose computer system which can be mass-produced
by unskilled labor.”[9]  
  
But as Hugh Durrant-Whyte and a team of NICTA researchers point out, 40 per
cent of the workforce - or around 5 million Australian jobs - are at high risk
of being replaced by computers in the next 10 to 15 years[10].  
  
This study largely reinforces a study by Oxford’s Martin School in 2013, which
found that a slightly larger proportion of U.S. workers - around 47 per cent -
will have their jobs threatened by computerisation in coming years[11].  
  
Part of the answer for Australia’s workers is contained in these two studies -
we are slightly less prone to automation than U.S. employees because of the
makeup of our workforce, with relatively fewer workers in the service
sector[12].  
  
What is different about the current wave of disruption - referred to by some
authors as the new wave of the industrial revolution - is the pace of change,
driven in large part by a confluence of trends. Each would be significant
enough to disrupt traditional jobs, industries and business models in their
own right, but together they’re having an irrevocable impact; not only on the
way we work, but on just about every aspect of our lives.  
  
This is no ordinary disruption  
  
The key to our future economic prosperity - our competitiveness and progress -
is, in large part, contingent on our ability to counter some trends and
embrace others. They include:  
  
As with previous cycles of technological progress, where the application of
new technologies has lead to greater automation - particularly in agriculture,
manufacturing and now mining - the current wave of disruption will inevitably
result in job losses in other areas susceptible to automation and
standardisation.  
  
While the prospect of 5 million jobs being lost to computers is alarming, it
does not consider the types of jobs that will be created in the future.
Technology will be leveraged to develop new goods and services, new
innovations will emerge, and companies most susceptible to disruption will
reinvent their business models, as many - though not all - are doing today.  
  
Take Netflix as an example. In less than a decade they cannibalised their DVD
by mail business with an on-demand video streaming service. Today Netflix
accounts for 30 per cent of downstream web traffic in North America, has 60
million subscribers worldwide and employs 2450 people. Many of those jobs - at
least at Netflix - would not exist today had they not cannibalised their old
business model[17].  
  
So while many jobs and in some cases entire industries are at risk of being
replaced by computers, technology can be harnessed to create a net increase in
employment. Our challenge is to ensure that enough Australians have the skills
and technological imagination to take advantage of new technologies; to
approach disruption as an opportunity to invent and create, and not something
that we seek to prevent.  
  
As Hugh Bradlow from Telstra observes in his chapter, “One certainty about the
economy and employment in the years ahead is they will be shaped and affected
by new technology.”[18] The reality is, the future is here now so we must be
prepared to embrace change and uncertainty as our friend, not our foe.  
  
Role of government  
  
The question therefore is: how, in the face of unprecedented technological and
demographic change, can we ensure that more jobs are created than are lost?
And how do we ensure that the jobs created will deliver a higher standard of
living than they do today?  
  
The aim is not, as Labor used to say, "future proofing." That’s neither
possible nor desirable. It sees the future as a threat not an opportunity. We
need to ensure we have infrastructure and the skills to embrace the future, to
make volatility our friend so that we can take advantage of all the
opportunities rapid change will involve.  
  
STEM and ICT skills  
  
Let me pick up on education and skills.  
  
Improvements in educational attainment and workforce skills enabled Australia
to respond, and ultimately benefit from, past waves of technological
disruption. For the most part, wages have increased and so too has
discretionary spending, creating demand for new goods and services, and
ultimately improving our standard of living.  
  
In terms of formal qualifications, Australia has a highly skilled workforce.
25 per cent of Australians have a tertiary qualification, and nearly 40 per
cent of 25-34 year olds have a bachelor degree or higher - this is above both
the OECD and G20 averages[19].  
  
But despite our educational attainment, we must ensure that students are
graduating from secondary school and university with the skills to succeed in
a more competitive, globalised world.  
  
In a volatile age of rapid disruption, agility and optionality are key assets.
I always discourage young people from studying law - unless they want to be a
lawyer. STEM subjects, including computer science; financial subjects, even
the liberal arts are far better grounding than an arid vocational degree which
will never be used in the profession.  
  
As Catherine Livingstone observed at the National Press Club earlier this
year, “We need to move urgently from a discussion about protecting the jobs of
today, to creating the jobs of the future. This includes ensuring that there
is a workforce skilled in attributes required by business.”[20]  
  
We know that advances in computing and software in particular are driving the
latest wave of disruption, and yet there has been a sharp decline in the
number of students studying computing at university. A recent report from the
Australian Computer Society and Deloitte Access Economics found that demand
for ICT workers in Australia will increase by 100,000 people over the next
five years[21]. But the number of IT graduates with a bachelor or postgraduate
qualification almost halved between 2002 and 2013. Despite a marginal increase
in the number of engineering graduates, there is a clear gap between the
forecast demand for ICT workers and the current pipeline of supply.  
  
This is a clear market failure and something that we must urgently address.
Business and political leaders - and of course universities and school
counsellors - have an important role to play in promoting the benefits of
courses such as computer science. We need to move beyond outdated stereotypes
of the IT worker as a nerdy guy in a brown cardigan and promote the virtues of
a computing qualification as an excellent generalist degree - the Arts or Law
degree of the 21st century. In Australia, almost half of all workers with an
ICT qualification work in non-ICT fields such as advertising, and 52 per cent
work in industries outside of ICT itself[22].  
  
And while much more needs to be done to increase the pipeline of secondary
school students that go on to study computing at university, a second and
equally important point is this: technology is at the heart of just about
everything we do, so more workers across the economy - regardless of their
occupation - will require generalist STEM skills if Australia is to remain a
competitive, prosperous country with a high social welfare safety net.  
  
The importance of STEM to the economy should not be underestimated, nor is it
new. As Australia's Chief Scientist, Professor Ian Chubb, has observed,
approximately 65 per cent of Australia's economic growth per capita in the 40
years to 2005 came from improvements in our use of capital, labour and
technological innovation. And demand will continue to accelerate - 75 per cent
of the fastest growing occupations now require STEM skills and knowledge[23].  
  
Our education system must equip students with the skills to meet this demand.
Like reading, writing and arithmetic, ICT skills such as coding and
computational thinking are becoming so critical that they should be embedded
across the curriculum - from Foundation to Year 10 as part of the digital
technologies syllabus.  
  
While digital literacy is critical, given the rate of technology adoption in
Australia - even among very young children - it is important that we move
beyond only teaching students how to consume technology and instead focus on
technology creation.  
  
Last year the UK's ICT curriculum was replaced by a new computing curriculum,
with students as young as five and six receiving coding lessons. As Michael
Gove, the former Secretary of State for Education, explained:  
  
"ICT used to focus purely on computer literacy - teaching pupils, over and
over again, how to word-process, how to work a spreadsheet, how to use
programs already creaking into obsolescence; about as much use as teaching
children to send a telex or travel in a zeppelin."  
  
"Our new curriculum teaches children computer science, information technology
and digital literacy: teaching them how to code, and how to create their own
programs; not just how to work a computer, but how a computer works and how to
make it work for you[24].  
  
I strongly support this position and encourage educators in Australia to
embrace machine languages and computational thinking as skills that are as
fundamental in the 21st century as reading, writing and arithmetic.  
  
Of course education is not the exclusive right of those enrolled in the school
and university systems. There needs to be a renewed focus on upskilling - or
reskilling - and career development, particularly in industries most
susceptible to automation. This could occur through traditional on the job
training, specialist courses, or vocational education.  
  
The Government is investing $3.5 million in a "coding across the curriculum
programme" to ensure all students gain exposure to coding in primary and
secondary schools.  
  
And we have committed $500,000 to trial a P-TECH style programme in Geelong.
P-TECH is an education pathways partnership between IBM and the New York
Education Department where students graduate with an associate degree, along
with the skills to continue studying or transition directly into an IT job.  
  
Conclusion  
  
We are living through the most exciting times in human history. The pace of
change is exhilarating.  
  
But we cannot foresee with certainty how the future will unfold.  
  
We do however know that the world is being transformed by an unprecedented
number of technology trends; trends that are reshaping just about every part
of our lives - not least of which is jobs and the labour force.  
  
[1] Byron, Childe Harold’s Pilgrimage  
  
[2] See The Maddison-Project, (2013), “Historic National Accounts” available
at: http://www.ggdc.net/maddison/maddison-project/home.htm. Adjusted to 2000
US dollars, the per capita income of Greece was $960 in 1830 compared to $800
in the year 0. As Josiah Ober notes in his excellent new book Rise and Fall of
Classical Greece, the rate of technical and developmental advancement in
classical Greece was as great as it was at the start of the modern era.
Source: Ober, J. (2015) The Rise and Fall of Classical Greece.  
  
  
  
[3] The Economist, (2011), “Robots Don’t Complain”, online here:
http://www.economist.com/node/21525432  
  
[4] John Maynard Keynes, (1930), “The Economic Possibilities of our Grand
Children”.  
  
[5] In 1931, output per head in Australia was $4,354 in 2000 US dollars; as of
2010, it was $25,584  
  
[6] Connolly, E., & Lewis, C., (2013), “Structural Change in the Australian
Economy”, RBA bulletin, available at:
http://www.rba.gov.au/publications/bulletin/2010/sep/pdf/bu-0910-1.pdf; see
also, ABS, (2001), “A Century of Change in the Australian Labor Market”,
available at:
http://www.abs.gov.au/AUSSTATS/abs@.nsf/Previousproducts/1301.0Feature%20Article142001#Endnotes  
  
[7] ABS, (2015), “Labor Force, Australia, Detailed”, available at:
http://www.abs.gov.au/ausstats/abs@.nsf/mf/6291.0.55.003  
  
[8] Goldin, C., and Katz, L., (2007), “The Race Between Education and
Technolgy”, available at: http://www.nber.org/papers/w12984.pdf  
  
[9] Quoted in Brynjolfsson, E., and McAfee, A., (2015), “Will Humans go the
way of Horses”, in Foreign Affairs(July/August), available at:
https://www.foreignaffairs.com/articles/2015-06-16/will-humans-go-way-horses  
  
[10] CEDA (June 2015), Australia’s future workforce? pp.6, 60.  
  
[11] Frey, C., & Osborne, M., (2013), “The Future of Employment: How
Susceptible are Jobs to Computerisation?”, available at:
http://www.oxfordmartin.ox.ac.uk/downloads/academic/The_Future_of_Employment.pdf  
  
[12] CEDA (June 2015), Australia’s future workforce? p60.  
  
[13] [email protected]/*  */ Blog, (2014), Moore’s Law and Computer Processing
Power, available at: http://datascience.berkeley.edu/moores-law-processing-
power/  
  
[14] Global Mobile Statistics, (2014), available at:
http://mobiforge.com/research-analysis/global-mobile-statistics-2014-part-a-
mobile-subscribers-handset-market-share-mobile-operators  
  
[15] Beta News, (2014), “The Global Supply Chain Behind the iPhone”, available
online here: http://betanews.com/2014/09/23/the-global-supply-chain-behind-
the-iphone-6/g  
  
[16] Australia Youth Unemployment, (2015), available at:
http://www.tradingeconomics.com/australia/youth-unemployment-rate  
  
[17] Forbes, “Global 2000 List” available at:
http://www.forbes.com/companies/netflix/ and Smith, C., (2015), “50 Amazing
Netflix Statistics and State” available at:
http://expandedramblings.com/index.php/netflix_statistics-facts/  
  
[18] Diamandis, P., (2015), “10 Years of Change” available at:
http://peterdiamandis.tumblr.com/post/118118175825/10-years-of-change  
  
[19] OECD (2012), Education at a Glance: OECD Indicators 2012, available at:
http://www.oecd.org/australia/EAG2012%20-%20Country%20note%20-%20Australia.pdf  
  
[20] OECD (2014), Skills and Jobs in the Internet Economy, pp.4–5, available
at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1787/5jxvbrjm9bns-en  
  
[21] Simes, R., & O’Mahony, J., (2015), Australia’s Digital Pulse, available
at: http://www2.deloitte.com/au/en/pages/economics/articles/australias-
digital-pulse.html  
  
[22] Ibid.  
  
[23] Australian Industry Group, (2013), Lifting our Science, Technology,
Engineering and Maths (STEM) Skills, available at:
http://www.aigroup.com.au/portal/binary/com.epicentric.contentmanagement.servlet.ContentDeliveryServlet/LIVE_CONTENT/Publications/Reports/2013/Ai_Group_Skills_Survey_2012-STEM_FINAL_PRINTED.pdf  
  
[24] Gove, M., (2014), “Michael Gove Speaks about computing and education
technology”, available at: https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/michael-
gove-speaks-about-computing-and-education-technology