PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Good afternoon. On a very non-political note happy Mother's Day to all
Australia's mothers. We love you all so much. Your love has made us what we
are. Happy Mother's Day.  
  
Now, I have returned from visiting the Governor-General as you have observed.
The Governor-General has accepted my advice to dissolve both houses of
Parliament effective tomorrow morning, and call an election for both Houses, a
double dissolution on 2 July.  
  
At this election Australians will have a very clear choice; to keep the
course, maintain the commitment to our national economic plan for growth and
jobs, or go back to Labor, with its higher taxing, higher spending, debt and
deficit agenda, which will stop our nation's transition to the new economy
dead in its tracks.  
  
We live in a time of remarkable opportunity. We live in an era when the scale
and pace of economic change is unprecedented through all of human history. The
opportunities for Australia have never been greater. There are many
challenges. But if we embrace this future with confidence and with optimism,
with self-belief and a clear plan, then we will succeed as we have never
succeeded before.  
  
Our economic plan for jobs and growth is as clear as it is critical - to
support this transition to the new economy of the 21st century.  
  
It is the most exciting time to be an Australian. These are exciting times.
But we must embark on these times, embrace these opportunities, meet these
challenges, with a plan and we have laid out a clear economic plan to enable
us to succeed.  
  
We have set up an Innovation and Science Agenda which will ensure that right
across our nation we are more innovative in business, in academia, in
government, ensuring that we are able in these times of rapid change to meet
them with the agility and the ingenuity and the imagination that makes for
success.  
  
We are ensuring through our Innovation and Science Agenda that our children
have the skills of the 21st century, and that our researchers and scientists,
the best in the world, are collaborating with Australian business and industry
so that we see more of the fruits of their work in Australian jobs and
Australian enterprise.  
  
We have laid out a Defence Industry Investment Plan which will equip our armed
forces with the capabilities they need to keep us safe in this century. And we
will develop and build those capabilities so far as we can right here in
Australia.  
  
Every dollar we can spend in Australia we will. And we will do so by investing
in Australian advanced manufacturing, in Australian technology, in Australian
science, in Australian industry creating thousands of high-tech jobs right
across our nation.  
  
And we live in a region that has seen the most remarkable growth. Little more
than a generation ago, China was an impoverished nation barely part of the
global economy. It is now the world's largest or on some measures the second
largest economy. That is just part of the changes we have witnessed.  
  
In a few years more than half of the world's middle class will be living in
Asia. The opportunities for Australia are enormous. But we have to have the
means to seize them. And we have established export trade deals right across
the region with Korea, Japan, and with China itself.  
  
With the Trans Pacific Partnership and only a few days ago enhancing our Free
Trade Agreement and military cooperation with the Republic of Singapore.  
  
That is providing jobs and economic growth right across Australia in services,
in tourism and education, in agriculture, right across the board, opening
those markets has created enormous opportunities for jobs and growth.  
  
A vital part of our plan is to ensure that young Australians get into
employment, that young Australians, particularly who struggle with getting
started in a job, develop the employability that will set them up for life.
And we have set out, as you have seen in our budget, a youth employment plan
that will help more than 100,000 young Australians into jobs with the PaTH
program preparing them to work as interns to get that experience, to get into
employment. Our tax system is a key part of our plan. It is one of the biggest
influences the Federal Government has on our economy. We are reforming our tax
system to make it more sustainable and fit for purpose in the 21st century.  
  
We have established and are establishing the toughest anti-avoidance laws in
the developed world. We believe in lower taxes. We do. But it is not optional
to pay them.  
  
Multinationals will have to pay their fair share in Australia. The laws we are
setting in place are the world's best.  
  
And we are providing tax relief for Australian businesses with our enterprise
tax plan, beginning with smaller businesses with a turnover of $10 million or
less and then working up so that after 10 years all Australian companies will
be paying 25% corporate tax rather than 30, making our tax rate more
competitive, providing the incentives for investment and for jobs.  
  
We are providing relief for middle income earners, so that people in the
middle income bracket do not move into the second highest tax bracket, in the
way they otherwise would. Our reforms to superannuation, which affect only the
4 per cent of highest income earners, in any negative way or adverse way,
these reforms make our superannuation system fairer and more flexible. 96 per
cent of Australians will either be unaffected or better off. People on low
incomes, under $37,000, will have their tax offset by our new reforms on their
superannuation contribution.  
  
Women, in particular, who have been out of the workforce will be able to come
back in and catch up on unused concessional contributions. And older
Australians will be able to contribute past the age of 65 and self-employed
people will be able to contribute in the same way as if they were employed.
These are critical reforms to make our tax system fairer, more flexible and
fit for purpose. Everything we are committed to, with record spending on
hospitals, on health, on education and infrastructure, is fully funded. Every
single one of our commitments is paid for.  
  
Now the double dissolution that the Governor-General has agreed to is, as you
know, brought about because the Senate has twice refused to pass legislation
relating to the accountability of unions and employer organisations, and most
critically, has twice refused to pass legislation to re-establish the
Australian Building and Construction Commission. The reestablishment of that
commission, in particular, which will be the consequence of us winning this
election, if the Australian people so decide, that will restore the rule of
law to the construction sector, which employs a million Australians. It is a
vital economic reform and critical to our continued success.  
  
Now, our national economic plan is already reaping rewards for Australians. We
are seeing business confidence and growth at higher levels. Last year, the
economy grew 3 per cent in real terms. Over 300,000 jobs were created, last
year, the highest since 2007. And 26,000 new jobs were created in the month of
March alone.  
  
That is the record that we have established already, and we will be seeking
the mandate of the Australian people to continue and complete that national
economic plan, because that is the key to us achieving and realising the great
opportunities of these exciting times.  
  
During this election campaign, my opponent, Mr Shorten, will undoubtedly make
very big promises, or continue to make very big promises of higher spending.
And I ask Australians when they hear these promises, from him and from Labor
to remember that Labor has no credible or coherent way to pay for them, other
than through more debt and higher taxes. The choice cannot be clearer at this
election.  
  
We have an economic plan for growth and jobs. Every single element of it is
designed, is calculated, determined, to deliver stronger economic growth and
more jobs for Australians. On the other hand, our opponents are promising to
increase income tax, they are opposing a tax cut for Australian businesses.
They are proposing to increase capital gains tax by 50 per cent, a tax on
investment.  
  
Now, all of us know that if you want to have less of something, you increase
the tax on it. That is how health organisations justify and urge governments,
as we are doing, to increase the tax on tobacco. Labor clearly wants to have
less investment. They are increasing by 50 per cent the tax on investment.  
  
After three years they have learnt nothing from the failure of the Rudd-
Gillard-Rudd years, in which Mr Shorten, of course was a leading player. And
reports, repeating the policy failures of the Labor era in government we see
one experiment after another, one failed experiment after another.  
  
We see Labor now proposing to ban negative gearing on every single asset class
except new dwellings. This will deliver a massive shock to the property market
at a time, as the Reserve Bank Governor said only a few days ago, property
prices are moderating. It puts at risk the investments of millions of
Australians. It stands in the pathway, blocking the road to entrepreneurship.  
  
Under Labor's plan, not only will the tax on investment be increased by 50%,
but a person who seeks to get started in business and borrows money, and has
no capital other than their own, their human capital, under Labor's plan that
person will not be able to offset any losses they have against their personal
income. But a wealthy person, of course, will be able to offset it against
their investment income. So, Labor, claiming to speak for fairness, but in
really speaking for nothing more than increasing taxes, stands in the way of
Australians getting ahead.  
  
Unlike the Labor Party, Australians know we can be trusted to keep Australia
safe and secure.  
  
The human capital. Under Laborâ€™s plan that person will not be able to offset
any losses they have against their personal income. But a wealthy person of
course, would be able to offset it against their investment income. So Labor
claiming to fairness, but then really speaking for nothing more than
increasing taxes, stands in the way of Australians getting ahead.  
  
Unlike the Labor Party, Australians know we can be trusted to keep Australia
safe and secure. Our Defence investment plan and our re-equipment of our armed
forces is making up for six years of neglect under Labor.  
  
And we know all too well, the shocking and tragic experiment Labor conducted
in Government which saw 50,000 unauthorised arrivals by sea and over a
thousand drowned at sea. We will maintain our border protection policies.
Australians know that we will keep our borders secure. They know that the
Coalition, totally united, is committed to keeping our borders safe. And when
we do so, as we have done since we returned to Government, what we do is
underpin the confidence that Australians have in a Government that controls
its own borders. In a Government that is able to manage an immigration system,
a humanitarian program, and build towards â€“ as we have done so successfully â€“
the most successful multicultural society in the world.  
  
So the question is clear; do we stay the distance with our national economic
plan for jobs and growth? Or do we go back to Labor, which has no plan, only
politics, only a recipe for more debt, more spending, more unfunded promises,
every measure they have proposed so far, absolutely calculated to stand in the
way of investment, to stand in the way of jobs.  
  
These are exciting times for Australia. These are times for confidence, for
optimism, for a clear plan and we will be seeking a mandate from the
Australian people on the 2nd of July. I will be seeking a mandate from the
Australian people, as the Prime Minister of this country, to carry out this
plan because we know that it will lay the way, clear the way for us to have
the greatest years in our history. These are times unprecedented in
opportunity. There are uncertainties. There are challenges. But with a clear
vision, a clear plan and confidence in Australia and its people, our greatest
days surely are ahead of us.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Prime Minister how many debates will you have with the Opposition leader and
will you commit to an early debate in the campaign?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
We havenâ€™t discussed debates but I look forward to having a number of them.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
Should we be disappointed with the Coalition that its taken 2 Â½ years for most
of you economic plan to be enunciated let alone put into place?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
We have set out a clear economic plan and we have laid it out. It is working.
The results are there to be seen in strong economic growth. Australians
understand that every plan can be judged on its results. And we have strong
growth, strong job growth. But it will be put at risk if Laborâ€™s job-
destroying investment-deterring policies are allowed to become the policies of
Australia.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
What is the positive effect of your centrepiece business investment, which you
say Labor would want to drop?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
As you reduce business taxes, company taxes in this case, and of course as we
reduce the tax on unincorporated businesses as well, what you do is promote
and incentivise investment. The relationship[ is very clear and direct. That
is why many people in politics including leading figures on the Labor Party,
including the shadow treasurer, have promoted the idea of reducing company
taxes. The way we are doing so is carefully calibrated to ensure that we
provide the earliest benefit to smaller businesses because they have the
agility, the quick decision making ability, to create new investment and jobs
sooner. This is a very carefully considered plan for real growth in jobs and
the economy and economic activity. There is a very direct relationship between
reducing business taxes to a level that makes them more competitive in the
world. Indeed, in our region. And it will pay a substantial dividend in jobs
and growth.  
  
JOURNALIST:  
  
The central claim from Labor against you is that your economic plan takes
money from families and is unfair. We've had almost three years of debate now  
  
about fairness in policy. The central claim against you is your policies are
unfair. How do you respond to that?  
  
PRIME MINISTER:  
  
Our plan, our budget, our economic plan, is fair. Not just to Australians
today, but to the generations that will come after us. What Labor left us with
was a mountain of debt and a trajectory of structural deficits that imposed a
larger and larger burden on our children and our grandchildren. Every measure
we have laid out, every single one, will deliver stronger economic growth and
more jobs. Economists may debate how much growth, how many jobs. Time will
tell, but every single one is pulling in that direction.  
  
Every lever of our policy is pulling in the direction of jobs and growth. And
yet you look at the Labor Party - everything they are doing, increasing the
tax on investment, refusing to relieve the burden of tax on Australian
businesses, despite having advocated for it in the past, imposing new taxes.
Everything Labor is doing is absolutely calculated to stop our economic
progress in its tracks. And that is why we are asking the Australian people
for the privilege of governing this country for three more years to secure our
prosperity, to secure our future.  
  
Thank you very much.