Australia-China Business Week  
  
Intercontinental Hotel, Sydney  
  
6 August 2015  
  
  
  
  
  
Without wanting to start my remarks on a melancholy note, today 6 August, is
the seventieth anniversary of the atomic bomb being dropped on Hiroshima
followed two days later by another atomic bomb on Nagasaki. A week later Japan
surrendered and so ended the Second World War.  
  
The quarter of a million lives lost in Hiroshima and Nagasaki were among the
last of the more than fifty million people killed in that war of which more
than ten million were Chinese.  
  
And in this year of seventieth anniversaries of the end of World War II it is
important not to forget that in Australia’s battle for survival against Japan
our longest ally was China itself.  
  
China had been invaded by Japan in 1937 and fought alone until the attack on
Pearl Harbour in 1941.  
  
Japan had 680,000 troops in China at the time it launched its Pacific
offensive - four times the number it deployed to sweep through South East Asia
until they were stopped in the jungles of New Guinea and in the Coral Sea.  
  
Had China’s leaders, Chiang Kai Shek of the Nationalists and Mao Ze Dong of
the Communist Party, chosen to reach an armistice with the Japanese, as Wang
Jingwei chose to do, Japan would have been able to redeploy its armies in
China in our direction.[1]  
  
Without China’s endurance and courage in the face of Japan our war history may
have ended very differently indeed.  
  
It is vitally important for Australians, and Chinese, not to forget that in an
epic struggle for the survival of our own nations, our own sovereignty, we
were allies. It is important for Americans and Chinese to remember that too.  
  
There is a tendency to see the sweep of Chinese Australian history solely
through the prism of the cold war and then the opening up of China and the
economic development that followed.  
  
This is not the occasion for a history lecture, but we should never forget
that the history of our two nations is long, rich and complex. We could not
imagine modern Australia without China’s contribution to our people, our
culture, our prosperity.  
  
And, perhaps above all, in our darkest hour, when our foes were literally on
our doorstep, when our cities were under direct military attack - then, at
that tipping point in our history, China was our staunch, indefatigable ally.  
  
When I addressed this forum last year we had a 20-strong negotiating team in
Beijing for the 21st formal round of negotiations on the China-Australia Free
Trade Agreement (ChAFTA). That agreement was signed on 17 June 2015 in
Canberra by Australia’s Minister for Trade and Investment Andrew Robb, and the
Chinese Commerce Minister, Gao Hucheng.  
  
Of course, before ChAFTA’s entry into force, both Australia and China must
complete their domestic treaty-making processes.[2] However, we expect that
the ChAFTA will be in force by the end of this year.  
  
The ChAFTA lays a historic foundation for the next phase of Australia’s
economic relationship with China. Most significantly, the unprecedented market
access China has offered to Australia under ChAFTA puts our firms at a
significant competitive advantage.  
  
This year, services contributed around 80 per cent to Australia’s economic
output and around 20 per cent to Australia’s export performance.[3]  
  
China is already the largest single market for Australia’s service exports. To
date, this has been dominated by education travel and tourism. In 2014,
education travel and tourism exports to China constituted over 60 per cent of
Australia’s total services export. China is our largest source of
international students (about 29% of the total), and is our largest source of
tourism expenditure (18% of the total). Australia’s export of other services
to China has been less impressive to date, however ChAFTA lays the foundation
for much faster export growth across many services.  
  
This, coupled with China’s appetite for quality Australian products, was on
display when I joined Mr Richard Liu, the Founder and CEO of JD.com, China’s
second biggest retailer, for the Australian launch of JD Worldwide.
Opportunities such a these mean that more Australian companies can now sell
their products directly into the home’s of Chinese consumers.  
  
Chinese consumers have not just burst into the middle class, they have
embraced online retail more than just about any other country.  
  
Online retail accounted for around 10 per cent of overall sales at the end of
2014, with spending at almost half a trillion dollars during the year. This
means that the Chinese online retail market is now larger than that of the
U.S.[4] It is forecast to rise to 13-14 per cent by the end of the year. By
contrast, online retail accounts for around 7 per cent of sales in Australia
and around the same portion of sales in the United States[5].  
  
Never before has it been so easy for Australian businesses of all sizes,
across just about every industry, to reach new and expanding markets in China.  
  
An area of growing success is architecture and urban planning. Australian
firms have capitalised on China’s rapid urbanisation, with over 80 Australian
architectural studios currently active in China. A further 220 Australian
firms have won work in China in recent years, with 1000 Australian architects
employed across residential, commercial, tourism and leisure and sporting
facility projects[6].  
  
A notable example is the Brisbane firm Cox Rayner Architects, which two years
ago won an international competition to design China’s $290 million National
Maritime Museum, beating a field of 80 of the world's leading design firms[7].
The museum will be located in Tianjin, to the east of Beijing, with
construction now underway.  
  
As part of the the China-Australia Free Trade Agreement, Australian
architectural and engineering firms will be allowed to obtain broader business
licenses to carry out work on construction projects in China[8].  
  
Innovation and the importance of openness  
  
Right now we are seeing a lamentable failure of leadership on the part of the
Labor Party which is supporting the union campaign critical of elements of the
China Free Trade Agreement.  
  
Now it’s important to have these debates in a society such as Australia’s. Few
ideas are so brittle that they cannot be knocked into better shape from the
crucible of political debate  
  
And in so far as these debates revolve around bringing temporary labour into
the country to plug skills shortages, we are balancing competing demands. On
the one hand, there needs to be appropriate incentives to train and educate
the local workforce who, after all, will be around long after a boom in
construction is over. A good example of this was the announcement by NBN Co
earlier this week to train an additional 4500 telecom technicians to speed the
project’s completion. On the other hand, skills shortages can massively
increase costs, create uncertainty and impede future investment in major
projects.  
  
So a flexible approach means that Australian workers will have a greater level
of certainty than their global counterparts as the price of iron ore
fluctuates. If the cost of iron ore does indeed fall below US$40/tonne[9], the
vast majority of resource that is still economic to export to China will
mostly be sourced from Australia[10].  
  
  
  
So arrangements to plug temporary shortages benefit foreign investors, benefit
Australians by boosting our national income and benefit workers by ensuring
project costs are managed and there is ongoing work.  
  
Now these ideas haven’t been plucked from thin air. Ironically, they were
first implemented by Labor after a 2010 review[11] recommended that a new
scheme be put in place for big resource projects to streamline the 457
process[12]. When in Government, Labor resisted the opposition of the unions
to grant the first in-principle approval of the new agreements to the Roy Hill
mine in Western Australia in 2012[13]. The main change to the ‘Investment
Facilitation Agreements’ which accompany the ChAFTA[14] is that they lower the
investment threshold for relevant projects from $2 billion to $150
million[15].  
  
Labor introduced the new scheme in 2012. Since mid-2013, responding to the
wind down in construction, the number of 457 workers in Australia has
decreased[16], while the number of 457 visa holders from China account for
only 6 per cent of the total[17].  
  
And yet that hasn’t stopped some outrage outbursts of economic chauvinism from
the Labor-side of politics. Some of the more egregious examples include:  
  
Subsequently, the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade have put out a fact
sheet dispelling myths and confirming that[22]:  
  
Now as I have said, I always welcome debate but I am very concerned that this
particular debate is on the verge of becoming feral or as Trade Minister
Andrew Robb said yesterday racist..  
  
While the unions will advocate for what they believe to be in their members’
interests - and the fact is that the vast bulk of 457 visa holders choose not
to be union members[23] - the Labor Party is supposed to be a party of
Government, and that brings with it the responsibility to stand up for the
national interest.  
  
This is a litmus test for Labor’s current leadership. It is instructive that
in Government, Labor resisted a union campaign against the original scheme and
a host of Labor elders from Martin Ferguson, Simon Crean[24], Peter Beattie,
John Brumby[25] and Bob Carr[26] have welcomed the agreements, as well as a
raft of business leaders.  
  
While Labor and the unions claim that there may be some benefits in delaying
the agreement, or seeking to revisit provisions relating to the labour market
in a few years, there are undoubtedly huge costs too. The National Farmers
Federation have estimated that if an agreement is not put into force by the
end of this year, it could cost the sector $300 million, mainly through having
to pay additional tariffs[27]. And Australian industries will continue to
suffer as major competitors, such as New Zealand, continue to enjoy
preferential treatment after having already signed agreements[28].  
  
So this campaign is not, by any measure, without cost to Australian business
and workers.  
  
Finally there is the psychological impact on Australia’s politics. Our
relationship with China is well understood as being our most important
economic partnership[29]. But Australia has a long history of ambivalence to
foreign investment even though we are a country that is resource rich but
capital poor[30].  
  
All reform necessarily involves winners and losers - but in the ChAFTA context
the winners overwhelmingly outnumber the losers.  
  
China will be, perhaps already is, the world’s single largest market. Not just
for iron and coal - but for everything. We already have few barriers to
foreign trade and investment, so a greater opening up of China has to be a
very big net gain for us and the limits of the win will be set only by the
extent to which the imagination and energy of Australian businesses enable
them to take advantage of it.  
  
The astonishing pace of China’s economic transformation is well known to you
all and I will not rehearse it other than to draw breath and reflect once more
that never before in human history have so many people hauled themselves out
of poverty so quickly.  
  
Forty years ago China was closed to the world, and Deng Xiao Ping in his
southern tour invoked the memory of 15th century Admiral Zheng He who led
great fleets across the Indian Ocean to open up new traces. China then was
strong, he said, but when later emperors closed China to foreign trade it
became weak beginning a decline that ended with 150 years of humiliating
invasion, colonialism and exploitation.  
  
Mao recognised the Chinese people had to stand up, and they did. Deng, and his
successors, have recognised that that is not enough. To be stronger still,
China had not just to stand up but to reach out. And so it has.  
  
China and Australia’s need for rebalancing  
  
Once asked why he robbed banks, John Dillinger replied “Because that’s where
the money is.” And the focus on money, and large amounts of it, is not limited
to bank robbers.  
  
There has been a natural tendency to view the economic relationship between
China and Australia exclusively through our major exports of iron ore, coal
and now increasingly LNG[31].  
  
  
  
But the economic relationship is now and will become vastly broader than this.
The ChAFTA will accelerate that broadening and deepening.  
  
There are real headwinds for several of our traditional exports.  
  
Let me make some specific observations about coal which has been in the news
today. China’s imports of coal declined by 37.5% year on year in the first six
months of this year. There are a number of factors which are not propitious
for thermal coal exports to China.  
  
First, China is working hard to reduce its energy intensity and increase the
share of renewables and nuclear power in its energy mix[32].  
  
Second, the phasing out of inefficient, costly state run heavy industry
plants, especially steel-making, is reducing demand.  
  
Third, China is the largest coal producer (and consumer) in the world. It made
massive investments (RMB 1.69 trillion) since 2011 in increasing production.
This has proved to be an overinvestment and 2015 production levels are only
160 mt higher than in 2011 indicating a considerable decline in capacity
utilisation. That is why many analysts predict that China will become, once
again, a net exporter of coal to avoid massive lay-offs in the coal
industry[33].  
  
Fourth, China is building a massive network of ultra high voltage transmission
lines to link coal and hydro energy resources in the north west and south west
of China with the industrial centres of the coast. This will reduce demand for
coal imports to the coastal cities and of course have the added, and very
considerable, advantage of reducing pollution and smog in the big cities near
the coast including Beijing and Shanghai.[34]  
  
As far as iron ore and metallurgical coal are concerned, they are the makings
of steel, and China like any other developing country is an intensive user of
steel as it builds its urban infrastructure and then over time that steel
intensity declines especially if, as in China, population growth stabilises or
even retreats. China's urban population accounted for 16% of the total in 1960
and is now close to 60%.  
  
China’s high growth rate over many years now has been driven by policies which
prioritise and incentivise investment not least by a policy of financial
repression which has kept money far too cheap, especially for state owned or
connected, enterprises.  
  
The consequent over investment, mal-investment and unsustainable levels of
debt were inevitable.  
  
The rebalancing of the Chinese economy, which has been the goal of the
national government for many years now, is starting to bear fruit. Consumption
which a few years ago was about a third of GDP is now rising towards 50%. The
challenge for Chinese leaders is to effect the rebalancing without creating
unacceptable levels of economic hardship and unemployment.  
  
The Government’s instincts are, predictably, interventionist, and often
counter productive, as we saw with the recent forays into the stock market.
The object surely must be to let the market work especially in financial
markets so that capital is appropriately priced for risk and consumers have a
fair return on their savings instead of subsidising often misguided real
estate and other investment.[35] [36].  
  
Next March, the Chinese leadership will release its 13th five-year plan. The
clues as to what it will contain can be found in what has been realised to
date in the current plan, much of which has already been achieved.  
  
It contained lower growth targets from the stellar double-digit figures that
had been achieved in the two decades to 2011; but you could say that it
focussed heavily on the quality of economic growth, rather than just the
quantity. As Xi Jinping argued earlier this year: “When looking at China's
economy, one should not focus on growth rate only.”[37]  
  
“As the economy continues to grow in size,” President Xi argued, “around 7 per
cent growth would be quite impressive, and the momentum it generates would be
larger than growth at double digits in previous years.”  
  
Chiefly, the five year plan contained targets for an increase in the service
sector’s share of output; an increase in scientific innovation; an increase of
the welfare state, with a particular focus on providing adequate health care;
and big improvements in eight key environmental benchmarks, such as the use of
renewable energy and reduction in CO2 targets as a percentage of GDP  
  
All of this has profound consequences for Australia. Australia’s exports in
iron ore to China in 2014 accounted for $50 billion -- that’s more than 56 per
cent of our exports to China or around 3.2 per cent of our GDP[38]. In others
words, the more than halving of iron ore prices since 2011 has delivered a big
hit to our national income.  
  
In the 1990s, labour productivity contributed 2 percentage points to our
national income growth; and the terms of trade virtually nothing. In the
2000s, labour productivity halved in terms of its contribution to income
growth and the terms of trade accounted for more than a percentage point each
year[39].  
  
  
  
So clearly Australia’s next phase of growth cannot be reliant on terms of
trade or external trade partners demanding more and more of our national
resources.  
  
We will need a renewed focus on domestic policy settings to ensure we are
doing everything to make our exporters more competitive, our products more
innovative, our workers more productive.  
  
If we want to remain a prosperous, high wage, generous social welfare safety
net, first world economy then, in this rapidly converging global economy, we
have be more efficient, more imaginative, more innovative, more
technologically sophisticated. We cannot rely on a few large commodities to
grow our national income. Our greatest natural assets are not below the ground
but walking around on top of it and every sinew of national policy must be
dedicated to the vision of ensuring that our human capital becomes the
smartest and nimblest to take advantage of the massively expanded global
market.  
  
We are in the most exciting, creative, disruptive time of human history. China
is a big part of it - perhaps the biggest single part of it - and we need to
be as mindful as the Chinese are of the need to rebalance our economy. And in
this, the shift of the Chinese leadership to focus on the ‘qualitative’
features of its economy, presents a huge opportunity for Australian
businesses.  
  
Chinese Innovation  
  
It is an easy trap to characterise Chinese business as lacking innovation or
creativity. Too frequently we hear reference to China’s ‘copycat’
manufacturers, test-focused education system or the government’s failure to
protect intellectual property rights. I believe such attitudes are outdated
and misplaced and ignore China’s long history of innovation as well as the
surge of R&amp;D; and entrepreneurship currently underway China.  
  
Until the early 19th century, China’s economy was the world’s largest, most
open advanced, and innovative.[40]  
  
Long before the renaissance brought the printing press and the astrolabe to
the West, the Song dynasty provided significant technological advances
including the invention of printing, paper money, porcelain, tea, restaurants,
gunpowder, and the compass.  
  
Over the past 30 years, much of China’s economic growth has come from being an
“innovation sponge”. China attempted to catch up with advanced economies by
absorbing and adapting technology, best practices, and knowledge from
overseas.[41]  
  
In his January 2015 speech at Davos, Premier Li Keqiang emphasised that China
is adopting “twin engines”. Firstly, mass entrepreneurship and innovation and
secondly increasing the supply of public goods and services in China.  
  
Li Keqiang quoted the proverb: “When the wind of change blows, some build
walls while others build windmills.”[42]  
  
In a more elegant way, he was making this point. In age of rapid technological
change , disruption and volatility we must learn to make volatility our
friend, not our foe. We must be agile to exploit the opportunities, rather
than waiting behind the walls frightened of the new challenges.  
  
As our traditional industries suffered during the 1980s and 1990s, Australia
had the goal and clear policies of increasing spending on R&amp;D; to improve
productivity. In its recent five year plan, China set the goal of increasing
expenditure on R&amp;D; from 1.75 per cent of GDP in 2010 to 2.2 per cent. It
has already hit that mark and - although the statistics for Australia lag by a
few years - it would appear China has now caught up to Australia in terms of
the portion of its economy spent on R&amp;D.;  
  
  
  
China now accounts for 50 per cent more patent applications per year than the
United States[43].  
  
Some of China’s most thriving companies are in sectors requiring advanced
manufacturing and customer service, such as online retail. Chinese companies
account for 39 percent  
  
of global revenue for trade in appliances, 15 per cent of global revenue for
trade of Internet software and 10 per cent of global revenue for
smartphones[44]. According to a study by McKinsey, China now ranks second in
the world in its share of global trade that relies on knowledge inputs.[45]  
  
Xiaomi, the Chinese smartphone producer, exemplifies China’s attitude to
innovation and entrepreneurship. Four years ago Xiaomi launched its first
mobile phone. Today it is the world's fourth largest smartphone company and
the second most valuable private startup. (Last week it was the most valuable
but has since been overtaken by Uber).  
  
And Xiaomi shows the extent to which the spirit of innovation is being crowd-
sourced from tens of millions of consumers around China. Every week Xiaomi
releases a new version of its operating software, built with online customer
input from a million of its users.  
  
Australia’s Advantages  
  
As China moves up the value chain of the world economy, there will be much
greater opportunities for Australia.  
  
China has a metaphor for the diaspora of students who have studied abroad, who
return home to contribute to the country’s economic growth - Haigui, or sea
turtles who take long migrations[46]. One of Australia’s most lucrative
exports to China has been our education sector. As at June 2015, there were
124,000 Chinese on student visas in Australia - more than a quarter of the
total[47].  
  
Australia needs to do everything it can to build up the reputations of our
universities and higher education sector in general to ensure we continue to
be competitive. Crucially, a recent survey of Chinese business leaders found
that while the Australian education system lags behind the U.S. in preparing
students for the 21st Century world of work, we are ahead of both the U.K. and
U.S. in terms of cost of living, lifestyle for students and providing an
environment that is safe and most secure from crime[48].  
  
Elsewhere, a range of Australian service industries stand to benefit from the
shift of the Chinese economy towards consumption and  
  
In 2013, the new Chinese leadership under Xi Jinping launched their new
60-point plan for economic growth to 2020, which included a list of sectors in
the service industry that would be opened for international competition,
including finance, education, culture, healthcare and other service
sectors[49].  
  
Earlier this year, the Australia-China Business Council released the results
of a survey which found that the most optimistic sectors for the two year
business outlook are mostly in the services sector – and the health sector in
particular.  
  
Expenditure on health care in China is forecast to go from US$295 billion in
2010 to US$1.02 trillion in 2018[50].  
  
Australia is well placed to capitalise on this new wave of innovation and
disruption emerging from China. However, we all have a role fostering a
culture of innovation which must be driven by the private sector, educational
institutions and government. In the innovation space, government must lead the
way with clear and detailed education, innovation and technology policies that
are funded adequately. Industry, too, must embrace disruptive change and most
importantly continue to enhance its understanding and relationship with China
and its economy.  
  
Conclusion  
  
For too many, that if ChAFTA meansChinese businesses and workers benefit, then
Australians must lose.  
  
This is a particular affliction for Australia, I think, because we are so
small, we fear that we will are unable to negotiate equitable agreements and
we will be left behind as the global economy grows.  
  
But it was true of China that it has always been most prosperous, most
innovative and most powerful when it has been open to the world. And the same
is true of Australia, as our history post-reform has shown.  
  
As Chinese Xi Jinping noted at the recent Boao Forum in March:  
  
“Our friends in Europe say that a single tree cannot block the chilly wind.
And Chinese people say that when big rivers have water, the small ones are
filled; and when small rivers have water, the big ones are filled. All these
sayings speak to one same truth, that is, only through win-win cooperation can
we make big and sustainable achievements that are beneficial to all. The old
mindset of zero-sum game should give way to a new approach of win-win and all-
win cooperation.”[51]  
  
Thank you very much.  
  
ENDS  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
[1] See Rana Mitter “Forgotten Ally – China’s World War II 1937-1945” 2013  
  
[2] Next steps in Australia’s processes: The Joint Standing Committee on
Treaties (JSCOT) is conducting a public inquiry into ChAFTA and will table its
report in Parliament, expected in the week beginning 19 October 2015.
Implementation of ChAFTA will require changes to: the Customs Act 1901; the
Customs Tariff Act 1995 and associated regulations; the Foreign Acquisitions
and Takeovers Regulations 1989; and Life Insurance Regulations 1995. in
addition, a determination will be required under the Migration Act 1958. More
information about this inquiry, including hearing dates and guidelines for
public submissions, is available at the Committee’s website. After the JSCOT
report is tabled, Parliament will consider amendments to relevant legislation,
and relevant regulations would also be amended in due course.  
  
[3] Australian Trade Commission, ‘Why Australia: Benchmark Report 2015’
(2015).  
  
[4] FT Confidential Research, (2015), “Online Retail - Crucial Battlegrounds”.
9 Apr 15. The Chinese online retail market accounted for US$484 billion in
2014, compared to $307 billion in the U.S.  
  
[5] NAD, (2015), “NAB Online Retail Sales Index”, available online at:
http://business.nab.com.au/wp-content/uploads/2015/08/NAB-Online-Retail-Sales-
Index-Jun-15.pdf. U.S figures sourced from Census, (2015), “Quarterly
e-Commerce Retail Sales”, available online at:
https://www.census.gov/retail/mrts/www/data/pdf/ec_current.pdf  
  
[6] Austrade, “Infrastructure and construction to China”. Last updated 19 Jan
15.  
  
[7] Wheeldon, D., “Cox Rayner Architects design National Maritime Museum of
China: international competition win”. 12 Apr 13.  
  
[8] ANZ, (2015), “The ChAFTA and its implications for Australian Businesses”,
https://bluenotes.anz.com/media/320138/CHAFTA_2.pdf, p.15  
  
[9] Citi investment bank has forecast an iron ore price of US$42 a tonne in
the third quarter of 2015 and $38 in the fourth quarter. See Thomson, J.,
(2015), “Lower Iron Ore Prices a Safe Bet”, available at:
http://www.afr.com/business/mining/iron-ore/lower-iron-ore-prices-a-safe-
bet-20150709-gi9746  
  
[10] RBA, (2015), “The Effects of Changes in Iron Ore Prices”, available
online at: http://www.rba.gov.au/publications/smp/boxes/2015/feb/a.pdf  
  
[11] DEEWR, (2010), “Resourcing the Future”, available online here, pp.62-64.  
  
[12] Known as the Enterprise Migration Agreements. Around 4,000 457 visas were
granted to mining/petroleum engineers and geoscientists in the five years to
March 2010. However, Labour Agreements between employers and the Government
took on average between six to nine months to process, with some taking more
than 12 months.  
  
[13] See for instance, Coorey, P., (2012), “Labor Sets Up Team to Look After
Foreign Worker Deals”, available at http://www.smh.com.au/federal-
politics/political-news/labor-sets-up-team-to-look-after-foreign-worker-
deals-20120529-1zhfm.html  
  
[14] https://dfat.gov.au/trade/agreements/chafta/official-
documents/Documents/chafta-mou-on-an-investment-facilitation-arrangement.pdf  
  
[15] See for instance, Parliamentary Library, (2015), “Trade Agreements and
Immigration Policy: Commitments in the ChAFTA”, available online at:
http://www.aph.gov.au/About_Parliament/Parliamentary_Departments/Parliamentary_Library/FlagPost/2015/February/ChAFTA-
IFAs  
  
[16] As at 30 June, 2013, there were 107,970 457 visa holders in Australia,
(source: DIBP, 2013, “Subclass 457 State/Territory Summary Report
http://www.border.gov.au/ReportsandPublications/Documents/statistics/457-stats-
state-territory-june13.pdf) while as at March 31, 2015, there were 106,750 457
visa holders in Australia (Source: DIBP, 2015,
http://www.border.gov.au/ReportsandPublications/Documents/statistics/457-quarterly-
report-2015-03-31.pdf)  
  
[17] There were 6,700 Chinese 457 visa holders as at March 31, 2015, out of
106,750 total. Source: DIBP, 2015,
http://www.border.gov.au/ReportsandPublications/Documents/statistics/457-quarterly-
report-2015-03-31.pdf, p.17  
  
[18] Quoted in abc, (2015), “Trade Minister Reassures Australian Workers China
FTA Won’t Threaten Australian Jobs”, available online at:
http://www.abc.net.au/am/content/2015/s4269434.htm  
  
[19] CFMEU national secretary Michael O’Connor quoted in Hannan, E., (2015),
“Labor to Seek to Rewrite China FTA if ALP Wins Election”, available at
http://www.afr.com/news/economy/trade/labor-to-seek-to-rewrite-china-fta-if-
alp-wins-election-20150724-gijunt, published July 24.  
  
[20] Vogler, S., (2015), “FTA Removes China from Skills Criteria for 457
Visa”, available at: http://www.couriermail.com.au/news/queensland/fta-
removes-china-from-skills-criteria-for-457-visas/story-fntuy59x-1227460104861  
  
[21] ABC, (2015), available online at:
http://mpegmedia.abc.net.au/rn/podcast/2015/06/bst_20150618_0751.mp3  
  
[22] DFAT, (2015), available online at:
http://dfat.gov.au/trade/agreements/chafta/fact-sheets/Pages/chafta-myths-
versus-realities.aspx  
  
[23] According to one survey, only 7 per cent of 457 visa holders are union
members. Source: Migration Council, (2015), “More Than Temporary: Australia’s
457 Visa Program”, available online at:
http://www.migrationcouncil.org.au/assets/files/8168a3189.pdf, p.4  
  
[24] See Australian Livestock Association, (2015), available online here:
http://auslivestockexport.com/livestock-exporters-welcome-australia-china-
free-trade-agreement/  
  
[25] Brumby, J., (2015), “Former Labor premier John Brumby calls on Parliament
not to block the China FTA”, available at:
http://www.afr.com/opinion/columnists/former-labor-premier-john-brumby-calls-
on-parliament-not-to-block-the-china-fta-20150720-gigb4w  
  
[26] See for instance, Hepworth, A., (2015), “‘Xenophobic’ attacks on China
free-trade deal risk relations”
http://www.theaustralian.com.au/business/economics/xenophobic-attacks-on-
china-free-trade-deal-risk-relations/story-e6frg926-1227464021004  
  
[27] National Farmers Federation, (2015), “China FTA - Promises Made, Promises
Kept”, available online at: http://www.nff.org.au/read/5017/china-fta-
promises-made-promises-kept.html  
  
[28] Since the New Zealand - China Free Trade Agreement went into force in
2008, dairy exports from NZ to China have increased by 864 per cent, while
Australian dairy exports increased only by 152 per cent.  
  
[29] Lowy Institute, (2015), “The Lowy Institute Poll, 2015”, available at:
http://www.lowyinstitute.org/files/final_2015_lowy_institute_poll.pdf, p.3.
More than half of respondents identified China as our most important economic
relationship.  
  
[30] As the 2014 Lowy Poll found, 56 per cent of respondents said they felt
that Australia allows too much investment from China. Lowy, (2014), “The Lowy
Institute Poll, 2014”, available online at:
http://www.lowyinstitute.org/files/2014_lowy_institute_poll.pdf, at p.3  
  
[31] DFAT, (2015), “Australia’s Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) exports, 2003-04
to 2013-14 and beyond”, available online at: http://dfat.gov.au/about-
us/publications/Documents/australias-lng-exports-2003-04-to-2013-14.pdf  
  
[32] According to a statement submitted to the U.N. as part of its Intended
Nationally Determined Contibution to reduce carbon emissions, China stated it
will reduce carbon dioxide emissions per unit of gross domestic product by
60-65 per cent from 2005 levels and increase the share of non-fossil fuels in
its primary energy consumption to 20 per cent by 2030 (Source: UNFCCC, 2015,
“INDC, China”, available at:
http://www4.unfccc.int/submissions/INDC/Published%20Documents/China/1/China's%20INDC%20-%20on%2030%20June%202015.pdf)  
  
[33] See for example Deutsche Bank research paper 3 August 2015 “Darker Days
Ahead for China’s coal industry?”  
  
[34] See Deutsche Bank research paper 23 March 2015 “How Will China UHV Boom
affect materials demand?”  
  
[35] For a good discussion of this see Pettis, M., (2014), Avoiding the Fall:
China’s Economic Rebalancing, pp.12-20.  
  
[36] The vast majority of infrastructure spending since 1998 in China has been
funded by local Government spending, via Local Government Funding Vehicles
(LGFVs), using public land as collateral (source: Chen, Z., 2015, “China’s
Dangerous Debt”, in Foreign Affairs, Vol 94, No 3, p.15). Local Government
debt has been estimated at between US$5 to $7 trillion. These vehicles have
been adversely affected by a 30 per cent drop in land value and volumes on the
market in 2015, with signs that local governments have created shell companies
to buy land and artificially increase land prices. Since 1998, the proportion
of infrastructure spending financed by Local Governments has increased from 77
per cent of total infrastructure spending to 86 per cent (source: FT
Confidential, 2015, “China’s Infrastructure Financing Puzzle”, 15 Jan 15.
Extra-budgetary funds for local Governments - that is, funding that comes from
‘land transfer fees’ as compared to normal tax revenues - has increased from
45 per cent of infrastructure funding to 58 per cent of infrastructure funding
as at 2013.  
  
[37] Xi Jinping, (2015), “Address to the Boao Forum”, available online at
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-03/29/c_134106145.htm  
  
[38] DFAT, (2015), “China Fact Sheet”, available online at:
http://dfat.gov.au/trade/resources/Documents/chin.pdf  
  
[39] Gruen, D., (2012). “The Importance of Productivity”, available online
HERE  
  
[40] John M. Hobson, The Eastern Origins of Western CIvilisation (Cambridge
University Press, 2004).  
  
[41] McKinsey Global Institute, (2015), Global growth: Can productivity save
the day in an aging world? . Indeed of the 1.25 million patents granted in
China last year only around a fifth were awarded in the highest category for
‘invention’ as opposed to the ‘utility model’ and ‘design’ categories. Source:
Waldmier, P., (2015) “China Fails to Live Up to its History as a Great Nation
in Innovation”, in the Financial Times, available online at:
http://www.ft.com/intl/cms/s/0/406b5f62-b710-11e2-a249-00144feabdc0.html#axzz3hvoka46M  
  
[42] Rosana She & Noric Dilanchian, ;China’s transition into a new innovation
powerhouse’ (4 March 2015),
http://www.businessspectator.com.au/article/2015/3/4/china/chinas-transition-
new-innovation-powerhouse  
  
[43] Angang, H., (2015), “Embracing China’s New Normal”, in Foreign Affairs,
Vol 94, No 3, p.9  
  
[44] McKinsey Global Institute, (2015), ‘The China Effect on Global
Innovation’, p.9  
  
45 McKinsey, (2015), “Global flows in a digital age: How trade, finance,
people, and data connect the world economy”, p.10
http://www.mckinsey.com/~/media/McKinsey/dotcom/Insights/Globalization/Global%20flows%20in%20a%20digital%20age/MGI_Global_flows_in_a_digial_age_Full_report.ashx  
  
46 Chu, K., (2015), “Chinese Firms Lure Executives From Western Companies”,
available online at:http://www.wsj.com/articles/chinese-firms-lure-native-
executives-home-1409671081  
  
47 DET, (2015), “International Student Data”, available online here:
https://internationaleducation.gov.au/research/International-Student-
Data/Pages/InternationalStudentData2015.aspx#Pivot_Table  
  
48 Zogby Research, (2015), “A Promising Partner: How Chinese Elites View
Australia”, available online at:
http://www.uts.edu.au/sites/default/files/How%20Chinese%20Elites%20View%20Australia%20-%20Australia-
China%20Relations%20Institute%20-%20Zogby%20Research%20Services.pdf  
  
49 See
http://www.china.org.cn/china/third_plenary_session/2014-01/16/content_31212602_7.htm  
  
50 ANZ, (2015), “The ChAFTA and its implications for Australian
Businesses”,https://bluenotes.anz.com/media/320138/CHAFTA_2.pdf  
  
51 Xi Jinping, (2015), “Address to the Boao Forum”, available online at
http://news.xinhuanet.com/english/2015-03/29/c_134106145.htm